Roxy (Pasco) Roxy is a 2-year-old female dog of unknown breed. She loves to snuggle. She is house-trained and participates well with other dogs in play groups. Roxy sits on command and takes treats gently, but could use some work on leash manners. She tested positive for heartworm, and required medications will be sponsored upon adoption. For more information, call Pasco County Animal Services at 813-929-1212. Moose (Manatee) Moose is a 1-year-old male mixed-breed dog. He’s a handsome sweetie who has had a rough life. He arrived at the shelter extremely skinny and missing most of his fur. Volunteers have shown him a lot of love and nursed him back to health. Now, he loves playing with people and chasing toys. He is very active, likes the challenge of learning new games and knows basic commands. It is best if he is the only animal in the house. For more information, call Manatee County Animal Services at 941-742-5933. Rocco (Hernando) Rocco is a black-and-white male terrier mix of unknown age. He currently has the job of visiting residents in a Hernando County area nursing home. He’s a big, strong, gentle giant who likes to climb into bed and snuggle. You can see the joy on his face as he sits on the couch next to his human. For more information, call Hernando County Animal Services at 352-796-5062. Pluto (Pinellas) Pluto is a 4-year-old male Bluetick Coonhound. He arrived at his foster home scared and a little thin. He has regained weight and has fun playing with his foster siblings. It would be best if he is adopted into a home with other animals. Pluto is housebroken and loves car rides and meeting people. For more information, fill out an application at fluffanimalrescue.org. Mork and Mindy (Hillsborough) Mork and Mindy are bonded siblings. The 9-week-old tuxedo kittens came into foster care as preemies. The pair like to play, chase, wrestle, nap, cuddle and eat. With June being adopt-a-cat month, Mork and Mindy hope to find a home together soon. For more information, go to StFrancisRescue.org.