If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Frank Vatrano scored almost eight minutes into the second period to put the Rangers ahead of the Lightning  2-1 in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference final at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Chris Kreider and Steven Stamkos exchanged goals in the first period, which ended with the teams tied at 1. The winner of the best-of-seven series will advance to play the Avalanche or Oilers in the Stanley Cup final. Brayden Point, who missed the entire second round with a lower-body injury, skated Wednesday morning but head coach Jon Cooper said the Lightning are prepared to play without the star center in the series. Follow our live updates throughout the game: Second period Jacob Trouba shot blocked by Nick Paul Nikita Kucherov shot blocked by Trouba Frank Vatrano hits Ryan McDonagh Adam Fox shot blocked by McDonagh Braden Schneider one-timer saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Trouba falls down, leading to a breakaway for the Lightning. Frank Vatrano hustles back to tip Anthony Cirelli pass away from Ondej Palt Ross Colton wraparound saved by Igor Shesterkin Tyler Motte wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy RANGERS GOAL: Vatrano snaps a shot over Vasilevskiy’s blocker from the slot after a misplay from Stamkos above the circles. Rangers 2, Lightning 1. Hedman hits the goal post Ryan Strome shot on 2-on-1 saved by Vasilevskiy First period RANGERS GOAL: Chris Kreider scores stickside from left circle off feed from Mika Zibanejad, who beat Nikita Kucherov down the ice after a long stretch pass. 1:11 into the game. Rangers 1, Lightning 0. Jan Rutta slap shot saved by Igor Shesterskin Four minutes into the game, each team has a single shot Anthony Cirelli wrist shot saved by Shesterskin Kaapo Kakko wrist shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Victor Hedman shoots wide of the net Ryan McDonagh knocks down Artemi Panarin Hedman shot saved by Shesterkin Ross Colton and Frank Vatrano get in each other’s faces after a skirmish in front of the Ranger net that started when Corey Perry got his stick up high on Shesterkin Mikhail Sergachev shot blocked by Barclay Goodrow LIGHTNING GOAL! Steven Stamkos blasts a slap shot past Shesterkin high on the stick side from the high slot after a set up from Jan Rutta. The play started with a strong forecheck from Stamkos, who forced a Barclay Goodrow turnover, trapping New York in its own zone. Lightning 1, Rangers 1. Shesterkin stops Kucherov tip after give-and-go with Alex Killorn Kucherov misses wide after backhand pass through the slot from Nick Paul Kucherov shot from right circle saved by Shesterkin Frank Vatrano wraparound attempt saved by Vasilevskiy Hand pass brings the puck out of the Lightning zone after a couple of shifts of sustained pressure from the Rangers Kucherov bad-angle shot goes through the slot Shesterkin swallows Kucherov shot from low in left circle Shesterkin saves backhand attempt by Stamkos Kreider blocks Erik Cernak shot from the high slot Brandon Hagel penalized for holding Filip Chytil Zibanejad slap shot saved by Vasilevskiy Paul wraparound shot saved by Shesterkin Trouba one-timer blocked by Sergachev Andrew Copp shot hits Vasilevskiy in the shoulder Lightning kill the Hagel penalty Trouba shot hits Cirelli’s skate Tyler Motte wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Adam Fox shoots wide from the right circle off the rush Lightning 1, Rangers 1 after one period Pregame scouting report The Lightning have laid bare their blueprint. Or, as head coach Jon Cooper likes to call it, their recipe. Stick to their structure. Take care of their own end first. Control the neutral zone. Wait for their chances. Sacrifice individual wants (not to mention their bodies) for the good of the team. Do it night after night, 16 times over a span of a possible 28 games, and history is your reward: a chance to become the first team to win the Stanley Cup three years in a row since the Islanders won four in a row from 1980-83. It’s no secret. For all of their offensive firepower, defense has been the key to the Lightning’s back-to-back Stanley Cup championships. But whether they haven’t been paying attention, are unwilling to make the necessary sacrifices or simply can’t match Tampa Bay’s will to win, no other team to this point seems to have taken the lessons to heart. Which is why the Lightning now find themselves halfway through what they hope will be a third consecutive title run while teams that finished with considerably better regular-season records are watching from home. Offensively, the Rangers are the least impressive of the three teams the Lightning have faced so far in the playoffs. But they have exhibited some of the traits that have helped Tampa Bay to sustained postseason success: resilience, a commitment to team defense and world-class goaltending. Like the Lightning, who rallied from 1-0, 2-1 and 3-2 deficits to beat the Maple Leafs in the opening round, the Rangers came back from 3-1 and 2-0 down to oust the Penguins and Hurricanes, respectively, in the first two rounds. Of the four teams still standing, Tampa Bay (2.46) and New York (3.00, tied with Colorado) rank first and second in fewest goals-against per game. And while there is only one Andrei Vasilevskiy, the greatest goaltender of his generation, Vezina and Hart Trophy finalist Igor Shesterkin will be the toughest goalie the Lightning have faced so far this postseason. The Eastern Conference final has all the makings of a great series, if not a high-scoring one. But then, if offense won championships, the Maple Leafs and Panthers still would be playing. Can the Lightning, who have won six consecutive postseason games and 10 straight playoff series entering tonight’s game, add the Rangers to their list of vanquished foes? Follow our live updates, starting at 8 p.m., as they hope to take the first step tonight in Game 1. Game night scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.