NEW YORK — The Rays and Yankees have been involved in a number of heated disputes over the years, from George Steinbrenner questioning Tampa Bay’s penurious ways in the early 2000s to salty accusations in recent years of throwing at hitters, then chirping too much about it. Now they are parties to a good old-fashioned baseball debate: Who has the best left-handed starting pitcher — or even best overall starter — in the majors? The Rays present their case in Shane McClanahan, who is 7-2, 1.81 in 12 starts. The Yankees counter with Nestor Cortes, who is 5-2, 1.96 in 11. The baseball world can get a glimpse tonight, when they meet in the middle game of a key showdown series — at least for mid-June — at Yankee Stadium. “Cortes and McClanahan have been two of the best starters anywhere in the majors this season,” said YES Network analyst John Flaherty, a former Rays catcher. “So to see them go head-to-head (tonight) should be exciting.” Besides their outstanding records and throwing left-handed, there are only a few similarities between the two. McClanahan is 25, Cortes 27. Both are in their first full seasons in the majors. And … that’s about it. They have become successful in quite different ways. McClanahan was a first-round draft pick in 2018 out of USF who moved quickly. He pitched his way to Double-A in 2019, made an unprecedented big-league debut in the 2020 postseason and after spending the first month of 2021 at Triple-A, has become a leading man in the Rays rotation. “He’s putting himself in a category here for two months of the season, a pretty special elite category,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “When you have that stuff, and you have that command, that’s why he’s there.” Cortes was a 36th-round pick in 2013 out of Hialeah High who became somewhat of a journeyman. He spent five full years in the minors, was acquired by the Orioles as a Rule 5 draft pick for 2018, then returned to the Yankees after four major-league appearances. He was traded to the Mariners before the 2020 season, missed most of the season injured and became a minor-league free agent. He then signed back with the Yankees for 2021, splitting the season between the bullpen and rotation (where he finally established himself), and further broke out this season. “I’m not surprised at all by this,” Yankees manager Aaron Boone said. “Now, if we go back 14 months, maybe I’m surprised that he’s this dominant and this kind of staple in our rotation. But going to spring training? Not at all. ... He was this guy last year in our rotation, so I’m not surprised that he’s continued it.” McClanahan has an impressive four-pitch mix that he commands well, but the key to his game is power, with a fastball that can reach triple digits and an MLB-leading 98 strikeouts (in 72 1/3 innings). He has made seven straight starts allowing two or fewer runs (and no more than three in any of his 12), hasn’t lost since April 30 and is coming off a career-high eight-inning outing Thursday against the Cardinals. He held the Yankees to one run over six innings on May 29. Cortes has slightly increased the velocity on his fastball, averaging a career-best 91.1 mph, but gets his outs by being somewhat crafty, using all of his pitches (including a new cutter) and limiting mistakes, such as reducing walks. He allowed two or fewer runs in nine of his first 10 starts (and three in the other) and has had two outings of six-plus innings allowing just one hit. He struggled a bit in his last outing June 8 in Minnesota, getting knocked out in the fifth inning and allowing four runs. He held the Rays to one run over eight innings on May 26. Tonight, for one game anyway, they can see who is best. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.