ST. PETERSBURG — The Rays felt their somnolent offense was waking up when they won the final two games in Texas, and that certainly looked to be true when they scored four runs in the first inning Friday against the White Sox. Even more so when they added on two late, the six runs their most in a game in nearly two weeks. That they went five innings in between, managing only two hits, somewhat disputes that narrative. “It was awesome,” insisted starter Shane McClanahan. “The boys came out hot, and they’ve been starting to get hot lately. And this is a very dangerous offense when everything’s clicking. So it’s a good sign.” Of more immediate satisfaction for the Rays was the end result: a 6-3 victory, a three-game win streak that is their longest in a month and an ascension to a season-best 10 games over .500 at 31-21. Ji-Man Choi did the most, with a sac-fly to start the four-run outburst in the first and a two-run double in the seventh, the season high-matching three RBIs extending his team-leading total to 24. “Ji-Man picked us up in a big way,” manager Kevin Cash said. Randy Arozarena had the big blast with a two-run homer in the first, albeit a 362-foot opposite-field shot. Still, that is six homers for him in his 22 games with none before. “In the beginning of the season, I didn’t feel great at the plate,” Arozarena said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “But I think I’m starting to come around and starting to feel good.” The Rays seemed to have an advantage before the game started when the struggling White Sox, managed by Tampa-born Hall of Famer Tony La Russa, had to scratch scheduled starter Vince Velasquez due to a groin strain sustained while shagging balls during batting practice Wednesday. They turned to Triple-A call-up Davis Martin, who made his big-league debut last month and has since been pitching at Charlotte. Though his most recent outing came against the Rays’ Durham team, Cash said, “We didn’t know anything about their pitcher.” For Arozarena, it wasn’t that big of a deal. “I usually don’t know much about the pitchers that are up there anyway,” Arozarena said, adding that he knows pretty much the fellow Cubans and Gerrit Cole. “I just go up there, and if they’re major-league pitchers, you know they’re good pitchers.” McClanahan worked six solid innings, extending his streak of starts allowing three or fewer runs to 11 (that’s a team record to start a season). And he posted his fifth start without a walk, pushing his MLB-leading strikeout total to 89, including his first five outs. Cash called the outing “impressive” and “awesome” and noted how McClanahan handled the Sox, making an adjustment to be ready to hit earlier in counts and still only allowed six hits. McClanahan, as is often the case, graded himself on a tougher scale. “Definitely didn’t have my best stuff (Friday),” he said. “That’s a good hitting team, and they put pressure on me all night and had to wiggle my way out of some spots and battle all six. Guys behind me had my back and (I) made pitches when I had to. It was a good night for everyone.” That included the bullpen, further shorthanded by the loss of top reliever JP Feyereisen for at least 15 days due to a shoulder issue, but it took some work to get there. Matt Wisler walked two before getting out of the seventh. Calvin Faucher fared much better than his May debut, but allowed two hits in the eighth. Recent addition Shawn Armstrong got two of the first three out in the ninth, but ended up allowing a run and then loading the bases. Colin Poche had to come in and get the final out. Said Cash: “It definitely got interesting.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.