MINNEAPOLIS — Rays centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier had an eventful Saturday afternoon. • Kiermaier’s third-inning throw to shortstop Taylor Walls led to an out at third base, giving Kiermaier his 52nd career outfield assist, tying BJ Upton’s franchise record. “Anytime you can be in the record books within the game or an organization, it’s a special thing,” Kiermaier said. “I always say, the Rays are all I know. This is what I know and what I love. So anytime I can be mentioned as a leader in any type of category, I’ll take it. Pretty cool. I’ve been roaming around centerfield for a while.” Manager Kevin Cash said it’s a fitting honor. “We know how good of a defensive player ‘KK’ has been for so many years here. For him to do that, I can’t think of a better defensive player this organization has ever seen. He should be the best one.” • Kiermaier’s assist came at the end of a controversial play, when a ball hit by Jose Miranda hit the wall to the left of center and came to rest on the pad in a cutout that allows views into the bullpen. Kiermaier picked it up and made the throw to Walls, which led to Miranda being called out trying to get to third, as Jorge Polanco scored from first to make it 5-3. Cash challenged that the ball was stuck on the padding. If so, he said that would have made it a ground-rule double with Polanco stopping at third. Acknowledging “there was a lot going on, happening fast right there,” Cash was willing to give up the out to save the run. “Yeah,” he said, “and I’m not totally sure that’s right.” • Lastly, Kiermaier had an odd moment at the plate in the seventh, when he lined a ball down the leftfield line but didn’t run initially, looking a bit confused. “I thought I fouled it right over our dugout,” he said. “I told the coaches, ‘Sorry, I know we preach about running and all that.’ … We always try to tell our guys to run hard right out of the box no matter what. “And right there I was just kind of caught in la-la land. … Sometimes you close your eyes and don’t know what happens after that.” New look for Brett Phillips? Outfielder Brett Phillips snapped his career-worst 0-for-31 skid with a with a first-inning single, his first hit since May 22. And he may be looking a little younger Sunday. The Seminole High product doesn’t have any real superstitions in his pre-game routine, so in talking Saturday morning about what he could do to end his drought, he said he’d shave his beard if he got a hit: “You can see me look like a 16-year-old.” Miscellany Ji-Man Choi singled in the Rays’ three-run first inning, extending his hitting streak to 10 games. … Randy Arozarena was picked off first base in the third inning, the 13th out he has made this season on the bases. … Harold Ramirez improved to 5-for-12 as a pinch-hitter. ... To make room for Shane Baz on the active roster, reliever Ralph Garza Jr. was optioned to Triple-A, Cash noting how Garza had extended himself in recent outings, working 3 2/3 innings last Sunday and 2 2/3 Friday: “Confident we’ll see him again but very appreciative of his work.” ... To make room on the 40-man roster, Andrew Kittredge, who will have his Tommy John surgery done June 22 by Dr. Keith Meister, was shifted from the 15- to 60-day injured list. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.