The big story: Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has made no secret of his view. To him, in-person learning is superior to online classes. After first calling for the closure of public schools as the pandemic took hold, the governor shifted gears to promote classroom instruction over remote options, which he eventually defunded. Children would perform better with teachers and classmates alongside them, he said. The first round of 2022 state test results suggest the issue is a bit more complicated. One in four third graders scored at the lowest level of the reading test, the highest percentage since the Florida Standards Assessments were implemented. The numbers have raised some questions. Read more from Politico Florida here. Hot topics Book challenges: The Osceola County school district’s library supervisor explained to School Board members how books are selected for libraries, WKMG reports. The district has four titles under challenge. • The founder of the Kurt Vonnegut Museum and Library has asked to meet with Brevard County Moms for Liberty members to discuss their opposition to “Slaughterhouse Five” in schools, WKMG reports. Employee pay: The Nassau County School Board will consider asking voters to increase the local property tax rate to boost revenue for teacher salaries, WJXT reports. • The Bay County school district reached an agreement to get all support employees to wages of at least $15 an hour, as will soon be required by law, WJHG reports. School security: The Citrus County school district held training sessions on how to reunify children with their families if they’re forced to evacuate the campus, Bay News 9 reports. • Several Broward County schools went into lockdown mode over false shooting reports, WSVN reports. Other school news Sarasota and Manatee county preschools are struggling to keep teachers. Housing costs outpace pay for the educators, the Herald-Tribune reports. The Alachua County school district will take over education at the county juvenile detention center. The group that had been providing the services walked away, citing “staffing issues,” the Gainesville Sun reports. Levy County teachers are getting training in environmental education. They’re looking for ways to infuse the topics into their classrooms more often, the Levy Citizen reports. The Marion County school district is ending its grab-and-go lunch system for the summer. Some parents are upset that children will have to be in a school cafeteria to get a free meal, as was the case before the pandemic, WKMG reports. From the court docket ... Jury selection in the Parkland school shooter penalty phase is starting to move faster, WTVJ reports. Meanwhile, an appellate court agreed to hear a case whether victims’ families can sue the gun maker over the shooting, the News Service of Florida reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... People have been passing around this short video as a mind bender. Keep your eye on the green sweater. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.