Now is the time to act. If you have been putting off planning for hurricane storm season, last week’s activity in the Gulf of Mexico should have been a wake-up call. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicts an above normal Atlantic Hurricane Season, which started June 1 and runs through Nov. 30. Longtime residents of Tampa Bay may say that Tampa hasn’t suffered a direct hit since 1921, but we can’t wait for when a major hurricane is heading our way to begin preparing. The preparation must begin now. There are four important steps to hurricane preparedness: Determine your risk, make a plan, stay informed, and get involved. When a serious storm arrives — and one will — residents who follow these steps will be in a much better position for recovery. Here is what you need to do: Determine your risk No matter your location, determining your risk is the first step in staying safe and being prepared for all disasters. In fact, in Hillsborough County alone, there are an estimated 678,646 residents in an evacuation zone. Starting this year, Hillsborough County has nearly 75,000 residents who are in an evacuation zone for the first time, and an estimated 62,824 residents were moved to a more at-risk evacuation zone. Learn if you are in an evacuation zone and if so, what level. Hillsborough County’s Hurricane Evacuation Assessment Tool helps residents determine if they are in an evacuation zone. Visit HCFLGov.net/HEAT in Hillsborough or pinellascounty.org/emergency/knowyourzone.htm in Pinellas to check your evacuation zone. But it is not only the strong winds, heavy rains, potential flooding and tornadoes spawning from tropical storms or hurricanes that are threats. There are many safety measures to keep in mind, including avoiding downed power lines and making wise decisions during power outages. For example, a portable generator can’t be running inside your home or garage because the exhaust can be deadly. Make a plan It’s never too early to make a plan. Prepare yourself and prepare for your family, including your pets. Pre-register for special needs disaster assistance, review homeowner insurance policies, and prepare your property by trimming trees and shrubs near your home and cleaning gutters and drain pipes to ensure nothing blocks the flow of water. Know when it’s time to shelter in place and host family or friends who must evacuate if you are in a safe location. Know when it is your time to evacuate and have a plan of where to stay: family or friends, a hotel or a county emergency shelter as a last resort. Stay informed Stay in-the-know during an emergency by signing up for HCFL Alert, Hillsborough County’s official mass notification system. Register at HCFLGov.net/HCFLAlert. Follow Hillsborough County on social media @HillsboroughFL on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for Nextdoor, for official information during emergencies. Get involved When disaster strikes, local, state, and national emergency management professionals engage and respond, but more help often is necessary. Consider volunteering and helping your community to assist before, during, or after a disaster. Join Hillsborough County’s Community Emergency Response Team; CERT volunteers are trained, certified and work with Hillsborough County’s Office of Emergency Management. Visit HCFLGov.net/CERT for more information. Check out Hillsborough County’s disaster guide at HCFLGov.net/DisasterGuide or the Pinellas guide at pinellascounty.org/emergency/allhazardguide.htm for how to prepare for and stay safe during an emergency. Timothy Dudley Jr. is director of the Hillsborough County Office of Emergency Management.