MINNEAPOLIS — The audio file of instructions and affirmations plays for about three minutes, with Justin Su’a, the Rays head of mental performance, doing the talking. Reliever Colin Poche listens to it intently before every game, “just something I do to kind of keep myself locked in.” With all the training tools, techniques and tactics now available to help players physically, Poche is also invested heavily in the mental side of the game. Specifically, the 28-year-old lefty is committed to a program based on breathing and visualization that he considers a significant reason for the success he has had. “When you think about it, the plate never moves, the distance never changes, so it should be really easy to just go out there and be able to throw strikes every time,” Poche said. “But it’s pretty easy to get in your own way mentally.” Much like a repertoire of pitches, Poche has different methods he turns to at different times. Prior to the first game of a road series, he finds time to go to the mound to “get a good snapshot” of what it looks and feels like. That was something he started doing in college at Dallas Baptist, instructed to soak in as many details as possible, and uses in his visualization routine to create a sense of calm and familiarity when he enters a game. “The brain can’t decipher between what’s real and what’s not,” Poche said. “So by you going through that routine, it honestly tricks your brain into you thinking you’ve already pitched in that situation, in that stadium before. So that’s been really helpful.” About 30 minutes before first pitch of each game Poche clicks though his phone for the file Su’a recorded at his request. The first instruction is to take, hold and release a deep breath. “That kind of clears everything,” Poche said. Then the visualization begins. “The first script is you picture yourself having success in a past situation. So you do that for like a minute or so,” Poche said. “The next one is to picture yourself in a situation in the game tonight. The idea is to use as much detail as possible, like what uniforms are the other team wearing? What stadium are you in? What situations?” Su’a then shifts to prompting with “affirmation statements” that Poche repeats over and over. “My specific one is, ‘Attack the hitter with all-out intent to the mitt,’ ” Poche said. “That just plays in your head.” Next is a mental boost, a reminder that “You’re a dominant, strike-throwing major-league pitcher.” That, Poche said, “just puts these confident self-images in your mind.” When Poche first gets to the mound, in more frequent high-leverage situations, he takes a look around, seeking an anchor for his racing thoughts and a base for his pre-pitch routine. At Su’a’s suggestion, Poche picks a spot on a railing at the front of the upper deck, which every stadium has. “Just an inanimate object to focus on,” Poche said. “I take a deep breath, and it kind of helps clear everything.” Then when it’s time to throw the pitch, Poche tries to take another deep breath. With ample time to assess his performance while missing all of the 2020 and 2021 seasons recovering from a second Tommy John surgery, Poche realized he needed to be more consistent in sticking to the breathing regimen. Especially when things are going badly and the game speeds up on him. “That’s something I use to just bring me back to my routine,” Poche said. “It just kind of centers me and keeps me level and focused on that singular pitch instead of outside distractions.” Su’a said the simple act of a deep breath can pay huge dividends, and he conveys that to Poche and others. “Just understanding the biology of a breath, the mechanics of breathing and what it does and the benefits,” Su’a said. “It’s not just some woo-woo technique, or positive self-talk. A deep breath at the right time will relax your muscles, it will clear your mind and help you focus on one pitch at a time.” Ultimately, everything Poche does is to get him to that point, to have clear and total focus — regardless of the game situation, stadium environment, weather, whatever else is going on in his life — on throwing each individual pitch as best he can. “Once you come set to make the pitch, that’s the only thing that matters,” Poche said. ”All I can control is making that pitch. Once it’s out of my hand, I can’t control if the batter swings or not, I can’t control if the umpire’s going to call it a strike. So it’s really just focusing on the things that I have direct control over.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.