Limit guns ... on TV, etc. Actor Matthew McConaughey calls for gun legislation at White House | June 8 I watched Matthew McConaughey speak at the White House about Uvalde and protecting our children. I agree with all that he said, but I believe Hollywood needs to limit movies that glamorize guns. With a steady diet of TV, movies and videogames, our youngsters are exposed to violence on a daily basis. Hollywood, you too are part of the problem. Sandra Boehning, Tampa Don’t be Texas Special Olympics drops vaccine rule after $27M fine threat from DeSantis administration | June 3 Gov. Ron DeSantis’ attacks on Disney, the Tampa Bay Rays and now special Olympics is nothing short of bullying. Protecting the vulnerable by supporting equality, gun safety and masks is honorable. Bullying and making threats is pathetic. Let’s not turn Florida into Texas. Eileen Stafford, St. Petersburg Give us games Rays made right call | Editorial, June 8 To all the major and minor sports franchises in the Tampa Bay area, please be aware that when most of us come to your venue, we come to watch a sports event; to be entertained or amused. We come to take a short break from the everyday world, and its politics, arguments, and conflicts. So, give us a break, and let us do just that. Players: We pay good money to watch you perform on the field. We do not pay to watch you promote political views in which you believe, whether they be liberal or conservative. So if you want to advocate a particular point of view, fine. But please, do it on your own dime, not mine. Kenneth R. Gilder, St. Petersburg Lock ’em up Tampa leaders call for an end to gun violence | July 8 Another mayor and police chief standing before a crowd saying gun violence must stop is a waste of time. Criminals don’t listen to pleas from officials to put down guns. What works is a dedicated group of law enforcement officers whose only job is high profile enforcement in areas of high crime and gun violence. Arresting targeted individuals and taking guns out of their hands works. Support of law enforcement and their efforts is essential. Hand wringing and pleas don’t work. Darrell Patton, Hudson