The big story: A day after Gov Ron DeSantis signed what he called Florida’s biggest state budget ever, much talk remained focused on his extensive vetoes. DeSantis said that he didn’t necessarily disapprove of the projects he axed, but rather that the state needed to keep the spending plan below $110 billion, just in case. Several observers couldn’t help noticing the governor eliminated items that had broad community and legislative support, without offering explanation. Some were the priorities of key lawmakers who had served as loyal allies. One example was a major science center for the University of South Florida St. Petersburg campus, highly touted by House Speaker Chris Sprowls. Envisioned as a centerpiece for the waterfront campus, DeSantis killed the $75 million appropriation as Sprowls stood behind him with a smile. Now backers are left hoping for better results next year. Hot topics Campus safety: The Broward County school district banned backpacks for the final three days of classes, WSVN reports. • DeSantis signed into law new measures aimed at improving Florida’s school security laws, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Guns at school: Officers found a box with loaded guns on the campus of a Broward County charter school. It belonged to the principal, WSVN reports. • Two teen brothers were arrested on accusations of carrying guns and ammunition to a different  Broward County charter school, WPLG reports. Teacher pay: Miami-Dade County voters will decide in November whether to increase their local property taxes to help give school teachers and other employees a raise, the Miami Herald reports. • Brevard County teacher contract negotiators have run into differences over recurring pay raises, Florida Today reports. Book challenges: Some of the Floridians calling for the removal of books from schools are not parents and have not read all the materials, WFTS reports. Other school news A Palm Beach County School Board member called the police shooting of a man who crashed into a school campus a “murder.” Police groups took offense, the Palm Beach Post reports. Doctors told a Lake County teen she would never walk again after an accident that left with traumatic brain injury. She walked across the stage for her high school graduation ceremony, WKMG reports. School board elections are heating up, as candidate qualifying approaches. Candidates for Sarasota County School Board positions squared off during a moderated forum, the Herald-Tribune reports. Before you go ... OK, soccer fans. The Premiere League season is ended. Agree or disagree with these Top 25 goals? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.