Florida is the expected landing spot for the premiere storm of the 2022 Atlantic hurricane season this weekend, but local meteorologists say Tampa Bay residents shouldn’t worry too much. That’s because the system, which forecasters on Thursday said has a 90 percent chance of strengthening into Tropical Storm Alex, is relatively weak and will do little more than raise rain chances between Friday evening and Sunday, said Austen Flannery of the National Weather Service’s Ruskin office. The National Hurricane Center on Thursday evening issued tropical storm watches that stretched from the Florida Keys north along the coast to Longboat Key, just south of the Tampa Bay area, and inland Manatee and Polk counties. Watches also were issued for southeast Florida, portions of Cuba and the northwestern Bahamas. Forecasters said parts of South Florida could experience 4-8 inches of rain and a storm surge of up to 3 feet. The center said the system was likely to reach tropical storm strength by later Thursday evening as it organized just east of Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula. It was then expected to travel across the Gulf of Mexico through Friday night before crossing the central and southern parts of the Florida peninsula Saturday. As of 8 p.m. Thursday, the system was 80 miles north-northwest of Cozumel, Mexico, and was traveling north at 5 mph. Maximum sustained winds were at 35 mph. If this forecast holds, Flannery said, spoiled boating and outdoor plans are likely the worst of the storm’s impacts on Tampa Bay. “There’s always a chance for deviation but the reality is, this is just a weak system,” Flannery said. “And the further north it goes, the more obstacles it faces.” Flannery says he expects a small craft advisory to be issued for Tampa Bay and surrounding waters this weekend. Isolated incidents of flooding could occur, he said, but aren’t expected to be widespread in Tampa Bay. While it’s possible the storm’s track could shift north to make landfall within Tampa Bay or closer to it, Flannery says the shift wouldn’t change much for this weekend’s outlook locally. At the worst, he said, the region would have longer periods of rain and slightly higher chances of flooding. “It won’t bring a big difference in impacts depending on where it goes,” Flannery said. The weather service says the highest chance of rain will come Saturday, where it’s been pegged at 70 percent for Tampa Bay with a chance of thunderstorms. The chance of rain Friday night will be 60 percent, while Sunday morning has a 40 percent chance. Highs will be in the upper 80s and lows will be in the mid-70s each day. • • • 2022 Tampa Bay Times Hurricane Guide IT'S STORM SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane. RISING THREAT: Tampa Bay will flood. Here's how to get ready. DOUBLE-CHECK: Checklists for building all kinds of hurricane kits PHONE IT IN: Use your smartphone to protect your data, documents and photos. SELF-CARE: Protect your mental health during a hurricane. • • • Rising Threat: A special report on flood risk and climate change PART 1: The Tampa Bay Times partnered with the National Hurricane Center for a revealing look at future storms. PART 2: Even weak hurricanes can cause huge storm surges. Experts say people don't understand the risk. PART 3: Tampa Bay has huge flood risk. What should we do about it? INTERACTIVE MAP: Search your Tampa Bay neighborhood to see the hurricane flood risk.