What would the Lone Ranger do? Children begged for help | May 28 The Lone Ranger would never have hesitated in Uvalde. Frank Moss, Seminole Reasonable regulations Don’t punish the law-abiding | Letter, May 24 A letter writer equates gun control to one person purposely killing someone with a car, then the government taking away everyone’s cars. The difference is that cars must be licensed, taxed and approved for road use. Drivers must be licensed and insured. “Common sense” gun laws would similarly ensure implementation of background checks. Philip Myers, Valrico How to save on gas Gasoline prices in US surge to fresh record | May 31 The 24-hour-a-day cable newscasts and newspapers report regularly on “surging” gasoline prices. These news outlets should take a break and instead report on speeding automobiles and miles-long traffic jams on interstate highways, streets and even country roads. We are kidding ourselves when we complain about $4.619 per gallon for gasoline, then speed 10 to 20 miles over the legal, posted speed limits on the streets and highways and impatiently honk at the car in front of us if that driver doesn’t peel out as the light turns green. Oh, and then we stop and buy a 16.9 ounce plastic bottle of water for $2.69, which equals $20.37 per gallon! Miklos Lorand, South Pasadena An upside? Gasoline prices in US surge to fresh record | May 31 Well, at least in President Joe Biden’s world with higher gas prices and probably less driving, the good news is that hopefully there will be less vehicle fatalities due to such ridiculously high gas prices. Dan Raulerson, Plant City Mum’s the COVID word It’s up to us to limit COVID’s resurgence | Editorial, May 25 I know that Gov. Ron DeSantis finds the wearing of masks to be COVID theater, but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has now named numerous counties in Florida to again be in the high infectious category. I find it hard to believe that the chief officer of the state would not mention this in his travels around Florida on a daily basis. Also where is his chief medical person, Surgeon General Joseph Ladapo and why has he not mentioned this? Both of the men are doing a disservice to the people of this state, especially those with pre-existing conditions. Kenneth W. Branch, Gulfport