NEW YORK — Corey Kluber knows the Yankees pretty well. He spent last season pitching for them and did well against them in a start for the Rays a couple of weeks ago, allowing just one run and three hits over six innings. All of which could mean something, or nothing, when he faces the Yankees Tuesday in the opening of what even Rays manager Kevin Cash acknowledges is “an early big series” at Yankee Stadium. “Regardless of whether it’s a couple starts apart or months, I think that teams are going to look at what I tried to do against them last time and I’m going to do the same thing,” Kluber said. “I just think there’s so much access to (information) that however soon it is afterwards, I think they’re going to get the same stuff either way. There might be a little more recent-ness, I guess, in the visuals and stuff for them. But it’s the same thing it comes down to: executing the game plan.” As well as the Yankees have been swinging, there will be a premium on doing so — and keeping the ball in the park. The veteran right-hander is well aware how easily balls can get out to rightfield but said he can’t let that affect how he pitches. “The way I view it is, if you try to pitch to a ballpark … you’re kind of trying to affect outcomes that are out of your control,” he said. “In the end, as a pitcher, all you can do is have a game plan and try to execute those pitches. And I think that if you’re worried about variables that you don’t have control over, it’s going to take away from your ability to do that.” But does it not tick him off to see what would be routine 300-foot fly balls to right in other parks go over the wall? “Yeah, but there’s plenty of fly balls that go to left center there where it’s deep enough that might be homers other places, too,” Kluber said. “I’m not sure it evens out, but there is some give and take.” Kluber has pitched as a visitor at Yankee Stadium four times with Cleveland, but this will be his first time as part of an American League East rivalry. “I’ve never — knock on wood, I guess — I’ve never had to deal with, like, a super-hostile environment there,” he said. “I think that their fan base is good in the sense that they’re passionate about their team, they support their team. And my experience there as a visitor has never been anything that wasn’t what you experience at any other ballpark.” Margot’s movements monitored Manuel Margot was the designated hitter on Sunday for the fourth time in the last eight games. The Rays continue to limit his activities coming off the hamstring strain that sidelined him in May and will continue to give him breaks from playing in the outfield. “It’s been a process,” Cash said. “I’m going to continue to do it. I know he says he feels good. But I think with Manny, watching him, when he can kind of get up to speed at his pace, he’s fine. It’s kind of that knee- jerk reaction, whether it’s stealing a base, whether it’s going for a ball in the outfield, those are the things that we’re trying to avoid.” Miscellany Triple-A right-hander Tyler Zombro — who in April made an amazing return to the mound after being hit in the head by a line drive last June — is sidelined for the season after undergoing thoracic outlet syndrome surgery. … Pitching prospect Ian Seymour, a lefty who was with Double-A Montgomery after being a 2020 second-round pick, underwent Tommy John elbow surgery last week. … Radio broadcaster Dave Wills had some good stuff as a guest on George Ofman’s “Tell me a story I don’t know” podcast, which drops Tuesday. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.