DENVER — You win 62 games in the regular season in 2019. You come back the next year and win the Stanley Cup. And then you win another. And now you’re back with a shot at an historic third consecutive NHL championship. And you’re the underdog? It’s true, the Avalanche are the slight betting favorites against the Lightning heading into tonight’s Game 1 at Ball Arena. And, to be fair, it’s totally justified. Colorado was the No. 1 seed in the West, raced through the first three rounds of the playoffs with a 12-2 record and enter tonight’s game with plenty of rest and home-ice advantage. As for the Lightning? They’re fine just where they’re at. As a consequence of their third-place finish in the Atlantic Division in the regular season, the Lightning have started on the road in all four rounds of the playoffs this summer. They fell behind both Toronto and New York but, in the end, it hasn’t mattered a bit. “Once you’re in the middle of a run (like) we’re in right now, you’re not really thinking about what happened in the past. You’re living in the moment,” captain Steven Stamkos said. “Who cares what happened to get you here? You’re here now. Embrace it.” With that in mind, here are a few storylines to consider heading into tonight’s series opener. What’s the deal with Point? Coach Jon Cooper said star center Brayden Point will be in the lineup for Game 1 after missing the past two rounds of the playoffs with a lower-body injury. Forward Brandon Hagel’s status for tonight is still up in the air. Hagel skipped Tuesday’s practice but was one of about a dozen players who took part in the optional morning skate on Wednesday. Cooper said Point’s place in the lineup could be determined by Hagel’s availability. During Tuesday’s practice, Point was skating on a line with Nick Paul and Ross Colton. Is goaltending the x-factor? The Avalanche have been scoring at a ridiculous pace in the postseason, averaging 4.64 goals per game. But they have not faced a goaltender even close to Andrei Vasilevskiy’s abilities. Colorado, meanwhile, has been a little shaky in the net. Darcy Kuemper was the No. 1 starter for the regular season but missed much of the Western Conference final with an injury. Backup Pavel Francouz is 6-0 in the postseason, although neither goaltender has a particularly strong save percentage. Avalanche coach Jared Bednar declined to name a starter for Game 1, but Kuemper was in the net usually occupied by the starter during Wednesday’s morning skate. Is the high altitude in Denver a factor? The Avalanche would like to think so. Teams that aren’t accustomed to the thin air in the Rocky Mountains can have a little trouble adjusting. “We’re a fast-paced team,” said Avalanche general manager Joe Sakic. “We train in altitude. The faster the pace is, we feel we can take advantage of that.” The Lightning have only played one game in Denver in the past two years. Cooper says the Lightning normally are in town for 24-36 hours, so arriving on Monday has given them time to acclimate. “We’ve been here a couple of days, so it’s probably going to benefit us,” Cooper said. “We didn’t skate incredibly hard (on Tuesday), but they got up and down the ice a bit and they were feeling it. And so I’d rather they feel it (Tuesday) than today. It’s a factor, but it’s a factor for both teams.” Will the Avalanche have trouble with the layoff? It’s been eight days since Colorado swept Edmonton in the Western Conference final. When the Lightning had a nine-day layoff after sweeping Florida in the second round, they acknowledged they came out flat against New York in the next series. “I think we’ve handled it well,” Avalanche forward Logan O’Connor said. “Practices have to be hard at this point. We had to get after it and be detail-oriented, and I think we did that and then had a good balance of days off and rest.” Colorado went through a similar layoff earlier in the postseason. The Avalanche had seven days off after sweeping Nashville in the first round and beat St. Louis in Game 1 of the next series. How will the Lightning handle MacKinnon? Tampa Bay used its checking line of Anthony Cirelli/Alex Killorn/Hagel effectively against Florida and New York, but Cooper was not committing to putting them against Colorado’s top line. “It’s hard to lay your cards on the table before you’ve even hit the ice,” Cooper said. “We have a thought process how we’re going to do things, but until we get into the game flow, it’s just too hard to say.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.