TAMPA — After Rangers coach Gerard Gallant said he was going to talk to the supervisor of officials regarding a pair of goalie-interference calls against the Lightning Sunday, Tampa Bay Jon Cooper was asked if he could expect more calls to protect the goaltenders. “I don’t think they could have called it any tighter,” Cooper said after his team’s 3-2 win. The Lightning clearly were miffed by the slashing penalty called against Corey Perry, who got his stick on Shesterkin’s mask, prompting the goaltender to fall wildly to the ice, flinging his arms in the air, tossing his stick,  turning over and holding his face. Perry and the Tampa Bay bench wanted an embellishment call against Shesterkin. But Cooper was even more miffed at the idea that the Lightning would try to run a goalie when they were on the man-advantage. “We were on a 4-on-3 power play,” Cooper said. “We aren’t trying to take ourselves off it, trust me. We’re not trying to hit the goalie. I think Corey Perry’s found himself in that spot. I think we were more angry than maybe the Rangers were at that point.” Shortly afterward, Lightning forward Riley Nash drove the net and skated into Shesterkin, prompting a goalie-interference penalty. “Is part of this game being net-front? Yes,” Cooper said. “Was that in our game plan to knock him over? No.” Nash, who had not played in a month and a half, was making his first appearance of the postseason. “Nasher is an honest player,” Cooper said, “so the last thing he’s doing — especially his first game in the lineup — he’s not known for that.” Later in the game, Rangers forward Frank Vatrano was called for goaltender interference after driving into the Lightning’s Andrei Vasilevskiy. After the game, Gallant was irked, believing Shesterkin was being run on by the Lightning “It fazes me more than him,” Gallant said. “I don’t like it. I don’t think it’s a big part of it. And hopefully, when we talk to the supervisor (Monday) they’ll take care of some of that, because it wasn’t right.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.