NEW YORK — Heading into the opening night of a three-game series with the leauge-leading Yankees — and first of six in a nine-day span — manager Kevin Cash said it was most important that his Rays play better. Tuesday was not a good start in a 2-0 loss. Errors by outfielders Manuel Margot and Randy Arozarena in the fourth inning led to the two Yankees runs, and the Rays offense failed to take advantage of two promising opportunities against Yankees starter Gerrit Cole. The result dropped the Rays to 35-26, improved the Yankees to 45-16 and widened the gap between them to 10 games, with 101 to play. “The errors happen, it’s part of the game,’’ Arozarena said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “We’ve just got to come back and hopefully not do that (Wednesday).” Adding to the Rays’ woes, a replay reversal of Yandy Diaz being called safe at second that changed the complexion of their sixth-inning rally. “I thought it was a bad call, and I think it cost us the game,” Diaz said, via Navarro. Potentially. They were left with one man on and one out rather than two on with no outs, and Margot and Ji-Man Choi did follow with singles that ended up just loading the bases. “We could have at least scored one run,” Diaz said. “After that, we got a hit and we could have scored some more. … “(The reversaI) was a surprise. I think a 5-year-old would have been able to see that I was safe at second.” With Corey Kluber again pitching well — and ending up a hard-luck loser — the game was scoreless, and somewhat crisp, until the bottom of the fourth, after Giancarlo Stanton drew a one-out walk. Gleyber Torres hit a fly ball down the rightfield line that the normally sure-handed Margot ran under but somehow failed to grab as it bounced off his glove, with Torres ending up on second. “I thought I had it the whole time,” Margot said via Navarro. “I don’t really have an explanation for it. When I was about to catch it, I don’t know if I just closed the glove a little bit earlier, but I didn’t get it.” An out later, Isiah Kiner-Falefa lined a single to left, and Arozarena let fly a throw that sailed over the plate. Stanton scored easily, and Torres came around and slid across the plate as Kluber, who blamed himself for being late and somewhat out of position to back up the play, made a shovel pass to catcher Francisco Mejia that was too late. “What happened was he got a hit, I got it and I threw it home, and I didn’t make a good throw and they scored,” Arozarena said, summarily. As painful as the sloppy defense was — now allowing 40 unearned runs, second most in the majors — the ineffective offense also hurt. They had two on and no outs in the fifth when Arozarena singled and Kevin Kiermaier walked, but Isaac Paredes flied out, Mejia was called out on strikes (the fourth Ray to go down looking) and Taylor Walls grounded out. They had an even better chance in the sixth, even after the replay reversal, when they loaded the bases with one out but Arozarena swung at the first pitch — which would have been a ball low — and grounded into a double play. “There should be some familiarity there,” Cash said. “I understand Randy, you don’t want to fall behind Gerrit Cole. But ideally you find a pitch you can handle.” Cash tried to find something positive: “Look, I thought we played well. I mean, we didn’t hit, and two plays that we normally convert into outs, or one for sure, we didn’t, and that was the outcome of the ballgame.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.