Cheney and the Constitution Hearings are a must-see for American democracy | Editorial, June 9 I am a centrist. I have CNN and Fox apps on my phone, and I consider myself to be informed on important topics. I have two distinct takeaways from the initial Jan. 6 committee hearing. I had found myself disagreeing with Rep. Liz Cheney often over the past number of years. Yet there she was, using her political life to shield our Constitution and protect our democracy much like parents would use their body to shield their child from harm. Compare that to those elected officials who tried to subvert the 2020 election results. I was also amazed that Fox wouldn’t even air the hearing on its primary news channel. That illustrates just how far Fox will go to continue a false narrative. This should not be about your party loyalty or mine. This is whether or not we hand off a democracy to our children and grandchildren. Make no mistake, history could repeat itself if “we the people” sit back and make excuses. Michael Bialet, Nokomis Charge some politicians Hearings are a must-see for American democracy | Editorial, June 9 If the hearings do not lead to criminal charges against political figures supporting the insurrection on Jan. 6, 2021, future elections will be at risk throughout the nation. These future actions may have more success and overthrow popular choices. Furthermore, I would then suggest that the hearings were strictly for public consumption — and without value. Marc Yacht, Hudson Dog and pony show Hearings are a must-see for American democracy | Editorial, June 9 Now that the Democrats’ dog and pony show — the prime time opening of the Jan. 6 committee’s hearings — is over, let’s hope the Democrats can turn their attention to the issues this nation is really facing that they have been neglecting. Here are just a few. High inflation. Rising gas prices. Rising food prices. Rising medical costs. Rising crime rate. Security at the southern border where deadly drugs flow across. And our opioid crisis. Ken Howe, Port Richey A violent message Limit guns ... on TV, etc. | Letter, June 9 Our youth are trained to be violent as soon as they learn how to play video games. A lot of video games challenge you with the more kills, the more points. Young adults do not totally understand the consequences of their actions until around the age of 25. That’s a lot of years for training our youth to be violent. Renee Hunter, Oldsmar