Roe v. Wade overturned Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade; states can ban abortion | June 24 I am astonished that a woman’s right to her own body is so lowly regarded by this state, many others and now the Supreme Court. Th court appears very political. If people want every baby born, then they must be willing to feed, educate and house these babies. If people want every baby born then they must also be willing to take a harder stance against rape and incest. We must also hold men accountable for the babies they make and not allow them to just walk away and leave woman holding the baby, so to speak. Tobey Burwick, Dunedin Losing confidence Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade; states can ban abortion | June 24 With the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade, I am losing confidence in its ability to make unbiased decisions, especially when polls indicate two-thirds of Americans back abortion rights. Taking away the rights of women to make their own reproductive decisions, especially in the case of rape and incest, is unconscionable. The states which take this freedom away had better provide a cost free birth control alternative. G.C. Myhre, Trego, Wisconsin. Good decision Thank God! Our U. S. Supreme Court restores the constitutional inalienable right to life. Women still retain the right to control their own bodies through self control and birth control. Abortion was never meant to be an easy form of birth control. Cynthia Fargo and Jean Cifelli, New Port Richey Apartment availability Pinellas prepares to pass bill of rights for tenants | June 23 This is about supply and demand: more apartments equals lower rent. Too many commission meetings filled with NIMBY (Not In My Back Yard) protesters are turning down builders ready to build, which restricts construction. Let builders build. Supply will go up and prices will go down. Allow higher density. Its no conspiracy; its basic economics. William E Gilbert, Weeki Wachee Universal voting It’s time for Florida to adopt open primaries or ranked choice voting | Letters, June 23 A letter writer in Thursday’s Times wrote about universal voting and commented that too often we only have far right and far left candidates to choose from in elections. The letter writer said we are stuck voting “between the lesser of two evils.” I’ve been voting that way for more years than I care to remember. Even though we may be voting for the lesser of two evils, we are still voting for evil! Wayne H. Smith, St Petersburg