What about my ‘freedom’? Why we don’t know how to stop school shootings | Column, May 31 I am now paying more for health insurance because there was outrage about getting vaccinated and wearing a mask. It is well documented that the unvaccinated were the vast majority of people in the hospital sucking up health care dollars “for their freedom.” And now what are we paying to arm guards in schools? To buy body armor for those same guards? And the enormous health care costs of people who have had their body shredded by assault weapons, along with lifelong trauma treatment for victims and families? Well I, for one, am sick of my freedom being taken away by a small minority who have shown themselves to be illogical, unconcerned about the common good and just plain ignorant about the rest of us. I want to be able to freely go into a supermarket, a school, a church without feeling I could be shredded by an assault rifle that is a military weapon. Penny Winkle, St. Petersburg A start but not enough School safety revisited | June 2 It is wonderful to know that Florida legislators passed HB 1421 and SB 802, updates on school safety measures. They are steps in the right direction to protect our students and educators. But they do not go far enough. There should be qualified psychologists in every school as well as mental health experts available to the public. Gun rights need to be revisited. There need to be universal background checks and limited or no access to high-capacity magazines and guns. A band-aid will not give the necessary protection; the entire package is needed. Marilyn S. Warner, Clearwater A ban on ammo Biden appeals for tougher gun laws: ‘How much more carnage?’ | June 2 How many more deaths before we solve the gun problem? It is disgusting. The more Texas Sen. Ted Cruz opens his mouth with his “solutions,” the more stupid he sounds, especially when he suggests fewer school doors and more locks. Makes me wonder how he ever got through Harvard? Now that’s an entry door that should have been locked. The U.S. House and Senate should be commanded into a padlocked room and not let out until they reach a solution. A good topic to start the discussion: Stop producing and selling ammunition. Gun owners can have all the guns they want. Let this country buy out the ammunition companies and buy back current owned ammunition. Mandatory life imprisonment for anyone caught with ammunition. Quick and easy. John J. Tischner III, Dunedin