ARLINGTON, Texas — It probably would not be wise, especially with the pitchers the White Sox are starting this weekend, to say the Rays have broken out of the extended slump that has ailed their offense. But Thursday was another step in that direction, most notably because Rays batters stepped on a base in each inning. They beat the Rangers 3-1 for a second straight victory, a split of the four-game series and their 30th W of the season. The Rays rapped nine hits for the afternoon and drew seven walks. While they only had the three runs to show for it — and left 11 on, going 2-for-10 with runners in scoring position — that could still be considered progress given their Tuesday-Wednesday stretch of having 30 straight batters retired. “We’ll take all of them right now,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “The only way you’re going to score is by getting guys on base and getting the guys behind you that chance for those things. ... “I know we’re capable of having big numbers and putting up a lot of runs. But you’ve got to be pleased because there’s a definite difference in what there was the first two nights.” Thursday was a team effort, as the Rays (30-21) played one of their crisper all-around games of late. Everyone in the lineup got on base in some way save for Brett Phillips, who did drop down the team’s third sacrifice bunt of the season, with Franciso Mejia having a hand in both run-scoring sequences. “We were able to attack their pitchers (Thursday),” outfielder Manuel Mangot said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Vidal Brujan, making his first appearance in the big leagues at shortstop, led the way with several dazzling plays as the Rays looked more like their usual tidy selves. Corey Kluber gave them another strong start, working six innings, allowing just a two-out homer in the sixth to Marcus Semien and four hits total. He worked effectively by mixing his pitches, and efficiently by throwing 45 strikes of 69 overall. And he got ahead early and often. “It’s basic, but it’s going to be key for any pitcher to have success,” Kluber said. “I think the more you can operate as a pitcher in advantage counts, and keep the hitters off balance, and not just kind of sitting on a pitch or location, more often than not you make the job a little bit easier.” The bullpen did its usual good work, with Brooks Raley getting two big outs and JP Feyereisen one. Perhaps most impressive, Ryan Thompson, who had been struggling, tallied the final three, all on groundouts to Brujan. “Really big for ‘Thomps,’” Cash said. “He’s said he’s struggled, he’s been accountable about it, hasn’t shied away from anything. He needed to have an easy ninth. So good for him, happy for him.” Individual struggles, injuries to key players and top-shelf opposing pitching have all contributed to the Rays’ offensive issues; the team scored 18 runs total in their previous seven games and hit only three homers “That’s a part of the game,” Margot said. “You just have to go with it and hopefully stick to it.” Facing a lesser starter in Texas lefty Taylor Hearn, the Rays took advantage with a 3-0 lead. Doubles by Mejia and Brujan got them one run in the second. A Margot walk and singles by Hittin’ Harold Ramirez and Yandy Diaz produced one run in the third, and walks to Mejia and Isaac Paredes forced in another. “These guys are fine,” Cash said. “They’re going to be fine. They appreciate the challenges that you go through in a long season offensively. They stick together. And I’m confident we’ll be fine.” Check back in a few days. After facing pedestrian Vince Velasquez in Friday’s series opener, the Rays will see two of the White Sox’s best in Dylan Cease and Lucas Giolito. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.