MINNEAPOLIS — This season is turning out to be more painful than anything else. And that has nothing to do with blown saves, too-quiet bats or walkoff losses. Injuries continue to be the primary topic of conversation — and consternation. Catcher Mike Zunino, sidelined with left shoulder inflammation, on Friday became the 14th Ray currently on the injured list, one less than the majors-leading Reds. (Pitcher Shane Baz was activated Saturday.) Nine weeks into the season, the Rays have had 21 players (three for COVID 19 reasons) serve 22 stints on the injured list. Per Sportrac, their composite 716 days served, through Thursday, was tops in the American League and third-most in the majors, behind the Reds and Cubs. Per the ManGamesLost.com subscription service’s weekly Tuesday update, the Rays ranked first in the AL and third overall with 582 games missed. By any measure, it’s been a lot, with the hits seemingly keeping coming. “Injuries are an unfortunate part of the game, and we try to prepare accordingly,” general manager Peter Bendix said Friday. “Our group prides itself on a ‘next-man-up’ philosophy. ”We have excellent people — coaches and staff — throughout our organization who only want the best for our players and work tirelessly to make that happen. We are constantly reviewing and trying to find ways to better.” Most of the injuries have been on the pitching side, though sidelining a team’s top two home-run hitters (Brandon Lowe, Zunino) and most dynamic overall offensive player (Wander Franco) is going to leave a mark on any lineup. Of the 11 pitchers on the injured list Friday, four were continuing rehabilitations from injuries in previous seasons — Nick Anderson, Yonny Chirinos, Tyler Glasnow and Brendan McKay. (On the plus side, Jalen Beeks, Colin Poche and Ryan Thompson all returned to action this season after extended injury absences.) Baz, who had a loose body removed from his elbow in the spring, started Saturday. Chris Mazza has had back issues and is pitching at Durham on a rehab assignment. Three others have been out with muscle strains, which teams industry-wide were concerned about, along with other soft-tissue injuries, given the delayed start to spring training, accelerated ramp up and abbreviated camp following the lockout. Pete Fairbanks strained a muscle in the back of his shoulder during the spring (and is now throwing 95 mph in bullpen sessions and eyeing an early July return). JT Chargois and Luis Patino strained obliques early in the season and also are working their way back. (Franco and outfielder Manuel Margot also previously had muscle strains; Ryan Yarbrough had groin tightness). JP Feyereisen, who has had previous shoulder issues, now has a bone bruise, expected to keep him out two-three more weeks. The most severe injury thus far was really an old one, as Andrew Kittredge, sidelined by a loose body in his elbow, will have Tommy John surgery to repair the ligament first torn in 2020. Manager Kevin Cash, trained by now in announcing injuries, typically always includes a reference to how the situation will present opportunities for others, which is pretty much how the Rays have to see it when there is a game just about every day. For example, of the 26 players active Friday, nine were called up during the season. Pitching coach Kyle Snyder takes a similar view. “I’m never numb to the injury issues,” he said. “There’s a care factor, and it’s something that I’ve gone through personally, so that adds layers to it. I’ll never be numb to that. “In terms of the rotating carousel, I’m very proud, and this organization should be, as well, in terms of what we’ve been able to accomplish with guys that have been able to come up here and be key contributors that maybe weren’t on the radar to begin with. That just speaks to the developmental process and our ability to identify talent.” Broadcast news Radio broadcaster Andy Freed is missing at least the first part of the nine-game road trip to help care for his wife and three children, who all have COVID-19. Neil Solondz has stepped in and earned high praise from partner Dave Wills for his call on Tuesday’s walkoff — a reference to Lightning announcer Dave Mishkin. ... Bally Sports plans at least a soft launch of its direct-to-consumer streaming service by month’s end. … Pre-/postgame TV analyst Orestes Destrade said “some serious family health issues” have limited him to occasional work from Bally’s Tampa studio that is near his home, but he does “hope to be back regularly (at Tropicana Field) very soon.” Also: “I have not been able to be at the Trop as much as I’d like/love to be. The Trop’s Rays fans and I have built such a cool and loving relationship over the many years and (they) are so important to me. I’ve missed them, for sure.” Rays rumblings Retiring Cardinals star Albert Pujols, 42, said it “meant a lot” and was “pretty special” that Franco wears No. 5 in his honor. Also: “That means that I’ve been playing this game for a long time, so I think it’s time to go.” … First drafts of the 2023 schedule, where teams play all teams in the other league, are being completed. … Shane McClanahan is Jim Bowden’s pick for The Athletic — and will be of many others — in early speculation to make the All-Star team. … Nice gesture for the Rays to do an in-game tribute video Thursday for Pujols and Yadier Molina, and cool response for the two to step onto the field and salute the fans and home dugout. … Nearly two years to the day of being the Rays’ top 2020 draft pick, right-hander Nick Bitsko made his pro debut, working 1-2/3 innings Thursday for the complex league team. He underwent labrum repair surgery in December 2020. ... Berkeley Prep’s JT Quinn and USF’s Orion Kerkering are among 250-plus draft prospects invited to MLB’s draft combine this week in San Diego. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.