Are you feeling sick? Maybe it’s COVID-19. Or the flu. Perhaps it’s just a cold. It can be hard to tell unless you get tested. All three illnesses have similar symptoms, although they are caused by different viruses. Some people might even get COVID and the flu at the same time. Certain symptoms are more common with COVID, such as loss of smell or taste. And colds are usually milder than the flu. The time it takes to recover from each illness also differs. And while there are pills to help treat COVID, not everyone is eligible. It’s also not meant to be an alternative to vaccination. Here’s a guide to help you out: What are the most common symptoms of COVID-19? The Mayo Clinic says the most common symptoms of COVID are: Other common symptoms include: How long does it take for COVID-19 symptoms to appear? What about the flu and common cold? COVID symptoms can appear two to 14 days after you’re exposed to the virus, although some people are asymptomatic. Flu symptoms tend to appear one to four days after exposure, while common cold symptoms tend to appear one to three days after exposure, according to the Mayo Clinic. How long does it take to recover from COVID-19 vs. the flu or cold? If you fall ill with COVID-19, it can generally take up to two weeks to recover, although some people could have symptoms weeks or months after recovering. This is known as long COVID. For the common cold, most people recover within three to 10 days. Some colds, though, can last as long as two or three weeks. For the flu, most people recover within a few days up to two weeks, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What medication can I take for COVID-19? If you fall ill with COVID-19, you might be eligible to get Paxlovid or Molnupiravir, antiviral pills meant to help certain high-risk COVID patients combat the illness at home. The pills, which are under emergency-use authorization, require a doctor’s prescription and can be fulfilled at select pharmacies including Publix, CVS, Walgreens and Walmart. And unlike monoclonal antibody treatments, which require injections or IV infusion, Paxlovid and Molnupiravir are oral medications. You swallow them like Tylenol. The FDA says the pills should be taken by eligible patients as soon as possible once they test positive. Paxlovid can be given to people as young as 12. Molnupiravir is for certain patients 18 and older. Treatment should begin within five days of the beginning of symptoms. However, the pills are not an alternative to COVID-19 vaccinations, the U.S. Food & Drug Administration says. Check with your doctor to see if you’re eligible for the pills. Make sure to mention allergies, illnesses and whether you’re taking any medication, including vitamins or herbal products. Health officials also recommend getting a COVID-19 vaccine and booster to help reduce the risk of serious illness. If you have COVID, you should not get the vaccine or booster until your isolation period is over. And yes, you can get a COVID vaccine and a flu vaccine at the same time. What are the differences in symptoms between COVID-19, the flu and the common cold? COVID, the flu and the common cold are caused by different viruses. Colds are also usually milder than the flu, while COVID can sometimes be worse than the flu. COVID is also usually contagious longer than the flu, according to the CDC. Again, all three illnesses have similar symptoms, but there are some differences. Unless otherwise noted, the info comes from the Mayo Clinic: I think I have COVID-19. What should I do? Think you have COVID? Get tested to check. If you test positive, speak with your doctor to see if you’re eligible for a COVID pill. You should also quarantine. If you live with others, isolate yourself in a room. If you have to be around others, wear a mask and ask them to wear one, too. At least you have lots of entertainment options to keep you distracted: TikTok, Netflix, Youtube, Disney+ ... and the list goes on. • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in the bay area. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for eligible recipients are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your ZIP code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • More coronavirus coverage OMICRON VARIANT: Omicron changed what we know about COVID. Here’s the latest on how the infectious COVID-19 variant affects masks, vaccines, boosters and quarantining. KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? Here’s the answers to your questions. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.