Florida Gators quarterback Anthony Richardson said being stopped for driving more than 105 mph “opened my eyes” and “changed my life for the better,” according to an essay he wrote to a judge as part of the case. Last week, Richardson pleaded no contest to unlawful, excessive speeding from an early-morning traffic stop on April 4. He was ordered to pay $349 and write an essay on what he learned about the incident and through a traffic safety course, how disobeying traffic laws could affect himself and others and what he’ll do to make sure he obeys them in the future. His essay to Judge Meshon T. Rawls, filed Wednesday in Alachua County, was an apology. ‘As a student-athlete, there are a lot of people looking up to me,” Richardson wrote. “My little brother is one that I know watches every move I make. I do not want him to think that speeding is acceptable.” Richardson said he’s no longer using the 2021 Dodge he was driving in April. “The citation also reiterated how I am viewed in my community,” Richardson wrote. “Letting my family, community and Gator Nation down was one of the hardest things to accept because I know that I am better than what I showed that night (and) want to make sure I stay away from negative situations. “Embarrassing myself, my family, the University of Florida, & my teammates was extremely painful. When you are a man of few words, people look more at your actions. “I would like for you and others to see me as someone that is reliable, responsible, respectful, hardworking, etc.” The essay was part of a request to have adjudication on the case withheld and to limit the points assessed to his driving record. Richardson appeared in eight games (one start) last season as a redshirt freshman. He rushed 51 times for 401 yards and three touchdowns and threw for six touchdowns and five interceptions. He’s expected to start for UF this season and has drawn early buzz as a potential first-round pick in next year’s NFL draft. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.