ARLINGTON, Texas — Rays manager Kevin Cash had a good idea of what to expect Tuesday night from Rangers starter Martin Perez as they go back a long ways. All the way to when Cash was still playing, a 33-year-old journeyman catcher finishing his career with Texas’ Triple-A team in 2011 while Perez was a 20-year-old rising prospect. “I caught him, so he’s getting old,” Cash said before Tuesday’s game. “We were both in Round Rock, Texas, and he was like a super prospect, which he should have been. I think watching him … that year you knew that if he kept himself healthy, he was going to be a pretty special pitcher and he’s had a tremendous career.” Perez, now 31, is on one of the best runs of his career, and Cash, unfortunately, had a prime view of his latest gem. The Rays were once again shut down and shut out, losing 3-0. The second straight loss dropped the Rays (28-21) into third place in the American League East behind the Yankees and Blue Jays, and six games off the lead. “Perez was outstanding,” Cash said. “Looking back at his pitches, (he) executed well, he had a lot of late life, a lot of late action in the zone. Then add the fact that he was just pitching to the edges it felt like all night with every batter, you’re going to have a quiet offensive night. “Saying that we’ve been quiet here as of late. We’ve got to somehow turn it around. Confident we will, but (Tuesday) probably wasn’t the night to do it just with how good Perez was.” The Rays have been streaky offensively much of the season and are in another downturn. They have scored 14 runs total over their last six games (and going 2-4) and were shut out three times in their last 19 games. Already missing Brandon Lowe, they now will be without Wander Franco for at least two weeks as he was placed on the injured list as he recovers from a right quad strain that has limited him for more than a month. “I don’t think that with Wander being out tonight that this is something new,” replacement shortstop Taylor Walls said. ”I feel like we’ve been struggling for a couple of weeks now. ... “Everybody’s got their own individual things that they’re working on. So just trying to come together, just play hard. You can’t really control exactly what happens every day. But you can control the mindset you approach each day with, each game, and coming in to work every day. Everybody in this clubhouse is going to do that so I don’t have any worry about that.” Cash also said it is a team-wide issue. “I don’t think you can pin it on one guy that goes down,” he said. “And you certainly can’t pin it on one guy that’s in the lineup. Collectively, we’ve got to do a better job of putting some pressure on the opposing pitcher and protecting our guy on the mound a little bit. We’ve kind of run a stretch here as of late that every pitcher is pitching with very little margin of error.” That was definitely the case Tuesday for starter Ryan Yarbrough. He retired the first seven Rangers, and nine of 10, allowing only one to reach as a hit batter. But then in a 10-pitch, four-batter span he allowed three runs (on homers by Corey Seager and Adolis Garcia), and that was too much. For the night, he worked 6 2/3 innings and posted his first quality start in five outings. “I think ‘Yarbs’ has been on a pretty good run,” Cash said. “He did a nice job. He gave us a chance. (The Rangers’) offense has been swinging the bat well lately, but still thought ‘Yarbs’ competed well. … (The offense) came fast. But even after it came, he settled back in and really did a nice job.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.