As a physician and researcher who focuses on cancer day in and day out, I am always thinking about — and working toward — ways to identify, treat and tackle the death rate of this terrible disease. I was pleased to see First Lady Jill Biden, joined by U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, visit the Moffitt Cancer Center recently to call attention to the administration’s renewed Cancer Moonshot program, an initiative aimed at cutting the cancer death rate in half over the next 25 years. The Biden-Castor appearance at Moffitt was an excellent opportunity to emphasize the need for progress against a disease that will claim the lives of over 47,000 Floridians this year alone. So what do we do next? What are the meaningful, consequential steps that should be taken to begin reducing cancer mortality rates — not just 25 years in the future, but sooner? The good news is that there is, in fact, an essential action well within our reach that will save lives. But it’s going to require Rep. Castor and our entire Florida congressional delegation’s leadership. First, it’s important to understand why cancer death rates remain so high. The reality is that, even as we continue to develop new and highly effective oncology treatments, too many cancers aren’t detected until they have reached an advanced stage in which the disease has spread, and treatment is far less effective. We have excellent cancer screening tools, but they don’t detect enough types of the disease. Today, we have commonly available screenings for only five variations of cancer. So, a woman can receive a mammogram to detect breast cancer, but there is no similar screening tool to discern if she has early-stage ovarian cancer. Seven of every 10 cancer deaths are from types of the disease for which we don’t have available screening capabilities. This also leads to the harsher impact that cancer deals to some racial and ethnic minorities. Florida-based academic research has shown, for example, that African Americans are affected disproportionately by pancreatic cancer, for which there is no early screening tool, and older persons of Puerto Rican heritage have higher rates of liver cancer. There is a new innovation that can help us address these problems. Population-scale clinical studies are driving the excitement of blood tests that are capable of detecting dozens of cancer types at once. With a tool like this, rather than only screening for one type of cancer, we can test individuals for cancer more broadly with a simple blood draw that could be conducted in any clinic or physician’s office. Just imagine how many more Floridians will have access to this type of cancer screening if they can take the test at any clinic or their doctor’s office. The key is to make these multi-cancer early detection blood tests, once they are approved by the Food and Drug Administration, accessible and affordable to those who need them most — seniors. Older Americans are the age group most likely to become afflicted with cancer. Yet, the laws governing Medicare don’t allow for timely coverage of FDA-approved preventive care technologies. There is bipartisan legislation in Congress, the Medicare Multi-Cancer Early Detection Screening Coverage Act, that would create a pathway for Medicare to cover these blood tests and make sure beneficiaries can get screened for multiple cancers. I encourage Rep. Castor and other Florida members of Congress to join as co-sponsors of this legislation and use their influence to push this bill through Congress and onto the president’s desk. It will be an important step in implementing the Cancer Moonshot program and cutting cancer mortality in half over the next quarter-century. Luis E. Raez, MD, FACP, FCCP, is past president of the Florida Society of Clinical Oncology and serves as the medical director and chief scientific officer of Memorial Cancer Institute at the Memorial Health Care System where he also leads the Thoracic Oncology Program.