DENVER — Nick Paul’s first-period goal Wednesday in Game 1 of the Stanley Cup final punctuated what has been a smooth transition to Tampa Bay. He attributes his quick adaptation to the same ingredient that has powered many elements of the Lightning’s continued success: a team approach. “Coming to a new team can be pretty nerve-wracking,” said Paul, who was traded from Ottawa on March 20 having never seen playoff action. “Where are you going to fit in? “But the guys here have been absolutely amazing,” he said after Friday afternoon’s skate at Ball Arena. “As soon as I got traded I got about eight texts welcoming me to the team. I get there and they take me out for dinner and made me feel right at home.” The 6-foot-3, 224-pound forward was brought in for his toughness and reputation as a good defensive player. An added bonus has been his offense, including a goal in his Lightning debut on March 22. He displayed that skill again when he scored the Lightning’s first goal of the Cup final. The goal at 12:26 of the first period briefly swung momentum in Tampa Bay’s favor after Colorado had busted out to a 2-0 lead. In six-plus seasons with Ottawa, Paul tallied just 29 goals in 227 games. During his quarter-season with Tampa Bay, he scored 5 goals in 21 games, and that uptick in finding the back of the net has continued in the playoffs. Due to Ottawa’s lack of team success, this is Paul’s first time in the playoffs. At the time of the trade, Lightning coach Jon Cooper talked about how Paul has a “playoff build” to him. “I know he’s not played in the playoffs before, but he’s a guy that looks like he’s built for it.” So far, that statement looks prophetic. In 18 playoff games, he has four goals, all at even strength. Only Ondrej Palat (9), and Steven Stamkos (8) have more Lightning playoff goals in 5-on-5 situations. Just as his teammates helped the 27-year-old transition to new surrounding, so did coaches. “They kind of let me know where they see me,” he said, “what kind of role I’ll be playing to help the team have the most success.” Paul, a Toronto-area native, was a fourth-round pick of the Dallas Stars in 2013 but never saw NHL action with them. In 2014, he was part of a deal that sent Senators stalwart Jason Spezza to Dallas. Paul spent several seasons shuttling between Ottawa and the minor leagues before settling in with the Senators. By the time he arrived in Tampa Bay, his coaches were blessed with options. During his pro career, Paul has fit in where needed — left wing, right wing, center — whatever it took “to get to the next level.” That versatility allowed him to play a key fill-in role for the last month when star center Brayden Point was out with an injury. Wednesday night, Paul played on Point’s line. After the 4-3 overtime loss, Lightning players and coaches preached the need to be less reactive to the Avalanche’s style of play and dictate things themselves. Part of the key to doing that will be improving their forechecking and not allowing Colorado to begin quick attacks Saturday in Game 2. Forechecking is one of Paul’s specialties. “They’ve got speed,” Paul noted. “You want to get touches on them, whether you’re finishing hits, whether it’s a little bump. The biggest thing is just laying a body.” Paul will be a free agent at season’s end. Already on his way to a career-high point total before the trade, he finished 2021-22 with a combined career-best 32 points on 16 goals and 16 assists. With his stock increasing, he’s definitely setting himself up for a nice payday, whether it’s back with the Lightning or somewhere else. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.