ARLINGTON, Texas — How good did Vidal Brujan look Thursday in his first game at shortstop in the big leagues? Consider veteran outfielder Manuel Margot’s reaction when asked, teasingly yelling across the clubhouse, “Watch out, Franco!” Brujan made a series of dazzling plays, including a backhand grab and throw for the second out of the ninth, in their 3-1 win. While he’s not going to threaten to unseat Wander Franco, the Rays’ injured sophomore star shortstop, or even replace Taylor Walls as the top backup, Brujan showed what he can do with his glove. And also with his bat, lacing a double to left-centerfield that one-hopped the wall to drive in their first run. “What a day he had,” manager Kevin Cash said. “I know he’s got his reps at short, but those first ones in the big-league level you wonder how it’s going to go. He couldn’t have been better; very rangy, covered a ton of ground, made good throws. And then picked us up, got it all going offensively. So definitely one of the stars of the game for us.” Brujan has had occasional moments of success during stints in the majors, but has yet to make much of an impact. With Franco (quad strain) and second baseman Brandon Lowe (back) out, he is getting more opportunity. Brujan said he felt “calm and relaxed” about debuting at short, having played 67 games there in the minors (along with second and third base, and all three outfield spots), and is confident that his hitting is improving. His best part of Thursday? “I felt really good on both,” he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I think all the work that I’ve been doing it’s definitely helped me out and I’ve got to hopefully keep on moving forward with it.” A day to remember Lou Gehrig and Paul Kirsch Major League Baseball’s observance of Lou Gehrig Day to raise awareness of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was even more meaningful to the Rays given the September passing of longtime Pacific Northwest scout Paul Kirsch following a lengthy battle with the disease. “PK was thought so highly of by so many in our organization,” Cash said. “I think it’s special that MLB recognizes that. It’s for a very good cause.” The Rays will wear jersey patches and stage Gehrig Day events Friday, including radio broadcaster Andy Freed reciting Gehrig’s “Luckiest Man” farewell speech accompanied by Rob Ray, who was diagnosed with ALS in 2018. Tampa’s Tony The White Sox visit makes for another homecoming weekend for Tony La Russa, the Tampa native and Hall of Famer who came out of retirement in 2021 at age 76 to return to managing. La Russa, who ranks second all time with 2,844 wins (and second with 2,460 losses), spent 33 years managing the Sox, A’s and Cardinals, while winning three World Series in his first stint. He led the Sox to the AL Central title last year but the injury-laden team is just 23-26 this year. Miscellany Margot insisted he felt fine, but Cash took him out of the game for the ninth inning and said he may get Friday off because he “just wasn’t moving as well as maybe that we’d like.” Margot recently returned from a hamstring strain. … Whatever health concerns the Rays had about catchers Francisco Mejia and Mike Zunino were apparently alleviated as Rene Pinto was sent back to Triple-A after one day on the taxi squad. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.