If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. The Lightning will try to even the Eastern Conference final at two games apiece when they host the Rangers in Game 4 tonight at Amalie Arena. Ondrej Palat scored with 42 seconds remaining to lift Tampa Bay to a 3-2 victory in Game 3 Sunday in Tampa. New York took the first two games of the series Wednesday and Friday at Madison Square Garden. Lightning star center Brayden Point will be out for an eighth straight game with a lower-body injury. Forwards Barclay Goodrow and Ryan Strome are expected to be in the Rangers’ lineup after after sustaining injuries during Game 3. Follow our live updates throughout the game, starting at 8 p.m.: Pregame scouting report You’ve got to have the puck. Then, you’ve got to put it behind the opposing defense and go get it back. Only then you can do everything else you want: play your cycle game, get shots to the net, create chances. It sounds overly simplistic, but in many ways, that’s what the first three games of the Eastern Conference final boiled down to. The Rangers used their speed to pressure the Lightning into turnovers and controlled the puck for most of Game 1 and at least the first half of Game 2, winning both. Tampa Bay began to simplify its game and push the pace in the latter half of Game 2. It attacked from the start in Game 3, possessing the puck and putting New York back on its heels. The Lightning won battles, spent considerable time in the offensive zone, got shots to the net and generated quality scoring chances. The Rangers weren’t able to establish the attacking game they like to play, and it resulted in fewer odd-ran rushes and easy looks at the net. After a combined 50 giveaways in the first two games, Tampa Bay had just six in Game 3. It outshot New York 83-51 and had a 51-30 advantage in shots on goal. The result was the Lightning’s first win of the series, a 3-2 victory that trimmed their deficit to a single game. A victory tonight will tie the series at two games apiece, making it a best-of-three as it moves back to New York for Game 5. Tampa Bay again is expected to play with 12 forwards and six defensemen, as it did in Game 3. The lineup adjustment allowed it to play with four full forward lines, including the shutdown second line of Anthony Cirelli, Alex Killorn and Brandon Hagel. Matched up against New York’s top line of Mika Zibanejad, Chris Kreider and Frank Vatrano, Cirelli’s line dominated 5-on-5 play, outworking the Rangers down low, maintaining possession of the puck and getting shots to the net. They drew two penalties and forced Zibanejad’s line to play for long stretches in its own zone, limiting its offensive chances. Meanwhile, the Lightning’s stars shined: Nikita Kucherov had a goal and two assists, including a beautiful backhand pass to set up Ondrej Palat’s winning goal. Steven Stamkos scored the tying goal. Victor Hedman assisted on two goals and made a couple of big defensive plays. Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 28 of 30 shots. Will the same formula work again tonight? Follow our updates, starting at 8 p.m., as the Lightning aim to take the second step toward overcoming a two-game deficit and moving to within two victories of advancing to a third consecutive Stanley Cup final. Game night scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.