ST. PETERSBURG — The morning after watching their bullpen squander a sparkling effort by starter Drew Rasmussen, the Rays activated high-leverage reliever Andrew Kittredge from the injured list. Hours later, he pitched a scoreless ninth inning to cap a sparkling ensemble effort by the bullpen in Sunday afternoon’s 6-5 loss to the White Sox. “They’re our backbone right now. They’re helping us,” catcher Mike Zunino said. “As the offense gets going a little bit more, we’ll be able to help them out some more.” To make room for Kittredge, who had been dealing with back tightness and hadn’t worked in a game since May 16, the team optioned right-hander Calvin Faucher to Triple-A Durham. Kittredge needed only eight pitches Sunday to get through the ninth, forcing a fly out to center followed by two ground outs. “I didn’t really want to miss time before anyway, but it’s just something that, at this point in the season, wanted to take care of it rather than maybe have it linger throughout the year,” Kittredge said prior to the game. “Definitely excited to get back out there, and with the injuries that we’ve got, it’s all hands on deck.” A change in Choi? Ji-Man Choi’s sharp fourth-inning grounder that bounced high off the pitcher’s mound for a single extended his hitting streak to six games, and epitomized a recent trend not unnoticed by his manager. Choi’s simply hitting the ball harder these days, Kevin Cash said. “His misses are even hard,” Cash added. “(Saturday) night, the at-bat off (Kendall) Graveman where he popped up, he just missed that ball.” Choi entered Sunday’s game with the majors’ seventh-highest average exit velocity (93.9 mph) on balls in play, according to Statcast. His hit streak follows an 0-for-10 skid. “You haven’t seen those swings where he’s really off-balance,” Cash said. “It seems like a lot of his swings are really balanced, and that’s allowing him to get that timing connection that you’re looking for.” Odds and ends Though still eight games above .500, the Rays (31-23) are 13-13 in their last 26 games and now are eight games behind the Yankees in the AL East. ... The 16 hits allowed Sunday by the Rays are the second-most they’ve allowed in a game this season, two shy of the total they surrendered in a 12-0 loss to the Angels on May 10. ... The Rays’ two home runs — by Isaac Paredes and Zunino — matched their total from the previous six contests. ... The White Sox improved to 9-6 in one-run games this season. Audible “I feel for Zunino right now, and a lot of the guys, but certainly Z. I feel like he’s taking some good swings and not getting a ton to show for it. ... When it’s not coming easy, the expectation is for those balls to fall, and baseball just doesn’t allow that sometimes.” — Cash on Zunino, who exited the weekend with a .152 average. Zunino’s sixth-inning home run (112.4-mph exit velocity) was preceded by a sharp line-out to left in the fifth. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.