ST. PETERSBURG — Isaac Paredes made headlines Tuesday night, hitting three home runs to tie the Rays’ franchise record for most in a game. What could he do for an encore Wednesday? He made history. By homering his first time up against the Yankees, Paredes became the first Rays player in their 25 seasons to homer in four consecutive at-bats. (He was hit by a pitch during his fourth time to the plate Tuesday.) And the first in the majors to do since Jose Abreu for the White Sox (Aug. 22-23, 2020). Further, per Elias Sports, Paredes joined Bo Jackson as the only players to do so against the Yankees in the expansion era (since 1961). Jackson did so over a span of four seasons (1990-93); Paredes in two days. The power display gave him a team-leading nine homers, all coming in his past 24 games (20 starts). “In general, I’m feeling really good,’' he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I think we just have to continue to work, continue to work, and stick to the same routine and see what happens.’' Tuesday was exciting enough for Paredes, the 23-year-old from Mexico whom the Rays acquired from Detroit in early April for Austin Meadows. Making it better was getting more text messages than he could keep track of from former Tigers teammates and other big-leaguers, and having a late-night call with his parents, who watched the game at home in Hermosillo, Mexico. Medical matters: Margot, Franco, Kittredge The Rays were waiting on additional medical input before announcing specifics of Manuel Margot’s right knee injury, treatment plan and recovery timetable. But manager Kevin Cash indicated the severity might not be as bad first feared, that “it’s looking better than not” and that while there would be “some significant down time,’’ a return to play late this season was not out of the question. … Wander Franco went 0-for-2 (with two strikeouts) and played four innings at shortstop in the first of three planned games for Triple-A Durham at Jacksonville. Franco, out since May 31 and limited before that with a right quad strain and other leg issues, is in line to rejoin the Rays this weekend if all goes well. … Starter Luis Patino (oblique strain) threw four innings for Durham on Tuesday, allowing two runs, in the second of at least five planned rehab starts. … Reliever Andrew Kittredge had Tommy John elbow surgery Wednesday, with all said to have gone well and the hope he can return in the second half of next season. Miscellany The three-run blown lead Wednesday was the Rays’ largest at home in regular-season play since Sept. 28, 2018, ending a streak of 92 straight wins when leading by at least three, which ESPN said had been the longest active such steak. ... The Rays have lost four straight series for the first time since August 2017. ... Randy Arozarena getting caught (via replay reversal) trying to stretch a single in the fifth was the majors-most 33rd out on the bases by the Rays this season, and his eighth. Earlier in the game, Taylor Walls was picked off third. ... Announced attendance was 12,264, down more than 8,000 from Tuesday, when there was a Mike Zunino bobblehead giveaway and no Lightning game. ... Pitcher Chris Mazza, a member of the opening-day roster who was designated for assignment Monday, cleared waivers and elected free agency. … Infielder Jonathan Aranda’s father (on a redeye flight) and mother made it to St. Petersburg to witness their son’s first day as a big-leaguer on Tuesday, then had a postgame pizza and breakfast on Wednesday, hoping to soon see his first at-bat, with the possibility he will start Friday. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.