GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP, N.J. — Brooke Henderson eagled the first playoff hole and beat Lindsey Weaver-Wright to capture the LPGA Classic on Sunday for her 11th win on the tour. Henderson shot a bogey-free final-round 7-under 64 to win for the first time in a year. The 24-year-old Canadian rallied from a four-shot deficit entering the final round of the 54-hole tournament to finish at 12-under 201. “I just was trying to go low and see what happens,” Henderson said. “I knew it was going to take a little bit of magic, and I’m just really happy that I’m sitting here next to the trophy.” Weaver-Wright, a 28-year-old American still looking for her first tour win, forced the playoff with birdies on four of the last six holes for 65. It was her best finish on the tour. Jodi Eward Shadoff (67) finished a shot behind the leaders. Lydia Ko and Albane Valenzuela shots 67s and were two back. Seminole native Brittany Lincicome, who is due to give birth to her second child in September, was at 9 under with Marina Alex and Nasa Hataoka. Lincicome and Alex shot 67s, Hataoka 68. “Being seven months pregnant, just being out here competing, being in contention, means the world,” said Lincicome, 36, who has not won since 2018, at a news conference. “It’s cool to be in here talking to you guys again. I haven’t done that in awhile.” Lincicome hopes to ride her success into a few more events before the new addition to her family comes. She and husband Dewald Gouws, who live in Gulfport, are parents to daughter Emery, who turns 3 next month. “To go and sit at home and not play, I feel like time is going to go by slower,” Lincicome said, laughing. “I was like, OK, I’m going to go play hopefully next week and through (the Women’s PGA Championship on June 23-26), and then go home and kind of get everything ready.” Second-round leader Frida Kinhult shot 75 and finished 5 under. While disappointed, Weaver-Wright was encouraged by her performance. ”It’s everything, especially because I haven’t been playing that great this year,” she said. “I mean, solo second, my best finish ever on the LPGA. It’s my fifth year out here. Like it’s a huge milestone for me. I’m just excited for the summer now.” Overnight rain drenched the course close to Atlantic City and made the greens very receptive, helping the scoring.