If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. The Avalanche pushed the Lightning to the brink of elimination with a 3-2 overtime win in Game 4 of the Stanley Cup final Wednesday at Amalie Arena. Kadri scored with Tampa Bay trying to make a change, getting around defenseman Mikhail Sergachev and beating goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy under the right arm 12:02 into the extra period. Colorado will take a 3-1 series lead into Game 5 Friday in Denver. The Lightning now will need to win the final three games to claim their third consecutive Stanley Cup championship. Nico Sturm tied the game at 2 less than three minutes into the third period by putting a shot off Andrew Cogliano’s right knee into the net. Anthony Cirelli scored 36 seconds into the game to give the Lightning a quick 1-0 lead. Victor Hedman and Nathan MacKinnon exchanged goals in the second period, which ended with Tampa Bay in front 2-1. Hedman’s goal came at 10:42 of the second, about 5-1/2 minutes after MacKinnon tied the game at 1 with his first goal of the series. Here’s how it happened: Overtime Andrei Vasilevskiy stops Valeri Nichushkin with left leg from point-blank range after Jan Rutta partially blocks the shot Nick Paul shot from left circle blocked by Darcy Kuemper after Bowen Byram lost his stick Mikhail Sergachev breaks up Compher pass for  Andrew Cogliano Josh Manson gets back to prevent breakaway opportunity for Alex Killorn Vasilevskiy stops Logan O’Connor with the glove after he got behind the Lightning defense Devon Toews hits the right post after his shot was tipped by Killorn Landeskog shot from left circle deflected wide by Vasilevskiy off feed from Nichushkin Bowen Byram shot hits the crossbar Vasilevskiy makes glove save on Manson one-timer from the center point Hagel shot from slot kocked down by Kuemper Manson sharp-angle shot saved by Vasilevskiy Erik Johnson shot gloved by Vasilevskiy Rantanen shot blocked out of play Hagel clears puck out of the zone after extended time in Lightning zone AVALANCHE GOAL: Nazem Kadri scores the winner on a drive to the net off of a change, getting around Sergachev and beating Vasilevskiy under the right arm. Avalanche 3, Lightning 2. (Avalanche win 3-2, lead series 3-1) Third period Anthony Cirelli back on the ice, but Brandon Hagel takes the opening faceoff Erik Johnson shot blocked by Steven Stamkos Stamkos blocks another shot Alex Newhook shot deflected into the corner AVALANCHE GOAL: Nico Sturm gets rebound of his own tip-in shot and shoots the puck off Andrew Cogliano ‘s right leg past Vasilevskiy. Lightning 2, Avalanche 2 (2:53) Jan Rutta pokes the puck off Cale Makar’s stick on the rush Nikita Kucherov hits the post Erik Johnson shot blocked by Steven Stamkos, who is slow to get back to his feet Corey Perry slap shot saved by Kuemper Ryan McDonagh wrist shot saved by Kuemper Rutta shot blocked by Landeskog Kucherov tries to set up Stamkos for a tip in front Hagel just misses connecting with Killorn going to the net as a backchecking MacKinnon gets his stick on the puck Kuemper makes glove save on Rutta drive from right point Cirelli sharp-angle shot off the rush misses the net Kuemper stops Hedman shot from the point and Paul follow-up on the backhand Compher blocks Hedman shot from the point McDonagh ices the puck, bringing the faceoff into the Lightning end (4 seconds left) (Lightning and Avalanche tied at two after regulation) Second period Anthony Cirelli backhander caroms off Darcy Kuemper into the corner Zach Bogosian shot blocked by Erik Johnson Corey Perry blocks Cale Makar shot Makar wrist shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Nathan MacKinnon snap shot saved by Vasilevskiy Artturi Lehkonen shot saved by Vasilevskiy Victor Hedman penalized for interference against Nico Sturm MacKinnon one-timer from left circle misses wide Makar shot from center point goes off back wall MacKinnon blast from point knocks down Cernak Mikko Rantanen shot blocked Makar shot blocked AVALANCHE GOAL: Rantanen shot deflects off Vasilevskiy and then MacKinnon’s skate into the net. Lightning 1, Avalanche 1 (5:17) Bowen Byram penalized for hooking Victor Hedman close to the Colorado net Nikita Kucherov shot from right circle saved by Kuemper Palat pass in front blocked Darren Helm clears the puck out of the zone Palat tip-in saved by Kuemper Stamkos whiffs on one-timer fro left circle Corey Perry tight-angle shot saved by Kuemper Mikhail Sergachev shot blocked by J.T. Compher Avalanche kill the penalty; Lightning had two shots on goal during power play LIGHTNING GOAL! Hedman skates unimpeded from the neutral zone and scores on a backhander from the right faceoff dot, beating Kuemper over the leg pad on the stick side. Lightning 2, Avalanche 1. Steven Stamkos penalized for hooking MacKinnon shot blocked by Sergachev, who appears to be in some pain Makar pass from center point goes off Bellemare’s skate Killorn knocks the puck out of the zone MacKinnon wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy MacKinnon slap shot saved by Vasilevskiy Byram wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Cernak back on Lightning bench Valeri Nichushkin shot blocked by Stamkos Josh Manson picks off pass in front for Pat Maroon Sergachev sharp-angle shot goes off Kuemper’s arm Hagel shot blocked by Alex Newhook Anthony Cirelli goes off the ice and down the runway after falling and landing on his right arm (1:17 left) Makar shot blocked by Ross Colton Kuemper stops Colton tip from the crease as the period expires (Lightning lead 2-1 after two periods) First period Alex Killorn wrist shot saved by Darcy Kuemper Anthony Cirelli tip saved by Kuemper Erik Cernak wrist shot saved by Kuemper LIGHTNING GOAL! Anthony Cirelli flips the puck over Kuemper’s stick from the crease. Lightning 1, Avalanche 0 (0:36) Valeri Nichushkin wrist shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Ondrej Palat wrist shot saved by Kuemper Victor Hedman shot blocked by Cale Makar Josh Manson shot blocked by Mikhail Sergachev Artturi Lehkonen shot blocked by Ryan McDonagh Makar shot blocked by Brandon Hagel Devon Toews shot blocked by Palat Cirelli wrist shot saved by Kuemper Nazem Kadri shot deflects off Steven Stamkos in on Vasilevskiy Lehkonen wrist shot saved by Vasileveskiy Pierre-Edouard Bellemare shot blocked by Erik Johnson Jan Rutta shot saved by Kuemper Toews shot blocked by Palat Rutta wrist shot blocked by Alex Newhook; strong backcheck by Riley Nash prevents breakaway Nash forces the puck out of the Lightning zone Kuemper stops Nick Paul from low slot after Nathan MacKinnon turnover in his own end Toews shot from slot blocked by Sergachev, who limps back to bench Toews shot blocked by Killorn Kuemper makes glove save on Stamkos wrister from slot Zach Bogosian whiffs on shot from right circle Bellemare shot from center point goes off Bowe Byram into the corner Darren Helm penalized interference against Riley Nash, putting Lightning on the power play Nikita Kucherov shot blocked by Kuemper Cale Makar shot saved by Vasileveskiy Maker wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Killorn backhander from low in right circle stopped and smothered by Kuemper Avalanche kill the penalty Cirelli wrist shot saved by Kuemper Cernak shot turned aside Cirelli gets knocked down at the offensive blue line, but no penalty on the play Shot in final seconds goes through the legs of Kuemper and out the other side (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report The Lightning have been talking about making history all season long. Now, they have another chance to do so. Complete their comeback from a two-game series deficit, and the Bolts will become the first team since the Islanders of 1980-83 to win three or more consecutive Stanley Cup championships. They also can become the first team in league history to come back from a 2-0 series deficit in a best-of-7 series in back-to-back rounds after first doing so against the Rangers in the Eastern Conference final. But first, they have to get the series against the Avalanche back to even. The Lightning took the first step with a commanding 6-2 win Monday in Game 3. They have a chance to tie the series tonight on home ice, where they have won eight straight playoff games. Tampa Bay is 8-1 this postseason at Amalie Arena. Game 3 was the Avalanche’s first road loss of the playoffs after seven straight wins. Head coach Jon Cooper seemed to suggest that center Brayden Point will be out for the 12th time in the past 14 games when he said this morning that he anticipates the Lightning will play the same lineup as in Game 3. Right wing Nikita Kucherov, who left the ice shortly after taking a cross-check from behind late in Monday’s game, is expected to play. Forward Andre Burakovsky, who remains in Colorado receiving treatment, will be out of the Avalanche lineup for a second straight game. Forward Nazem Kadri, who has 14 points, including six goals, in 13 playoff games, is back in the lineup after missing four games following hand surgery. Darcy Kuemper, who was pulled in favor of Pavel Francouz in the second period of Game 3, will start in goal. Game night scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.