TAMPA — Lightning center Brayden Point tried to play through a torn quad muscle in his right leg this postseason. Lightning general manager Julien BriseBois disclosed Point’s injury, calling it a “significant” tear that will still require a few weeks to recover from, during the team’s season wrapup news conference on Tuesday morning at Amalie Arena. BriseBois also went over a litany of injuries that Lightning players sustained — and played through — over the course of the postseason. • Center Anthony Cirelli sustained an AC joint sprain in the Eastern Conference final, then dislocated his other shoulder in the final. He will be evaluated by specialists to see if he will require surgery. • Forward Brandon Hagel played through a fractured foot. Nick Paul and Corey Perry sustained shoulder AC joint sprains in the conference final. • Nikita Kucherov played through a MCL sprain and Ryan McDonagh played through a mangled finger from blocking a shot in the Rangers series. • Pierre-Edouard Bellemare had a meniscus injury going into the playoffs that he will get scoped in the coming days. Point was injured in Game 7 of the Lightning’s first-round series win over the Maple Leafs, awkwardly falling to the ice before holding his right leg in pain. He tried to return, but was in visible pain skating. The Lightning then played most of the postseason without Point, who was the postseason’s leading scorer in each of the previous two playoff runs, scoring 14 goals each time. Point couldn’t play in the final four games of the Cup final. He averaged 17:20 in the first two games against Colorado, but netted just one shot on goal. “It’s unfortunate because it’s a severe injury and at this time of the year, everybody’s trying to get back into the lineup and just there are some things you can’t do,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper during the Cup final series. “When you can’t do what you’re used to doing, it’s tough on a player. That’s been part of our issue here.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.