Democrats taking hits Ex-Florida governor candidate Andrew Gillum indicted for fraud, arrested by the FBI | June 22 On June 19, columnist Dan Ruth wrote an opinion column with the headline, “The hits just keep coming from Tallahassee.” Democratic gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum just got hit with a 21-count federal indictment. The hits just keep coming from Tallahassee. James Wisner, Tampa Is Trump next? Ex-Florida governor candidate Andrew Gillum indicted for fraud, arrested by the FBI | June 22 Since Andrew Gillum and his associate have been charged with fraud, does that mean that Donald Trump and his associates can also be charged with wire fraud for getting funds for a “defense” account and instead using them for other purposes? Sandra Cavalier, Port Richey Standing strong Trump pressured states to reverse votes. They pushed back. | June 22 Arizona’s Republican Speaker of the House Rusty Bower testified before the Jan. 6 select committee about why his faith, his belief that our Constitution was divinely inspired and the oath he swore to uphold the Constitution were the reasons he did not act to subvert the election results on behalf of President Donald Trump. His testimony was riveting and it brought tears to my eyes, especially when he spoke about Trump supporters harassing his family at their home, with his daughter being gravely ill. Later though, I found myself wondering how a man of such faith and courage could have ever campaigned for Trump in 2016 and 2020. The answer, I suppose is that many people vote based on a candidate’s policies and ignore the candidate’s character. Or maybe the problem in some elections is that both candidates lack personal integrity, so the choice is “between the lesser of two evils.” Susie Hoeller, Lutz Find the criminals Trump pressured states to reverse votes. They pushed back. | June 22 I watched the Jan. 6 committee hearing Tuesday. The evidence included one of the most chilling scenarios I have heard so far. After President Donald Trump publicly called out Shaye Moss, a dedicated election worker, and her mother as criminal election fraudsters, which he knew was false, his followers tried to push their way into Moss’ grandmother’s house. They barged in on the premise that they were looking for evidence of fraud. If those felons are not tracked down and prosecuted, we should all be ashamed of our country. Ed Bradley, Boynton Beach