BALTIMORE — Shortstop Wander Franco has improved enough that the Rays are at least willing to talk about a possible potential return to the lineup as soon as next weekend. Franco, out since May 31 and limited before that by a right quad strain and other leg issues, is slated to be the designated hitter for the rookie-level Florida Complex League team Saturday (10 a.m. at North Port) and play shortstop Monday (7 p.m. at Port Charlotte). He then would move to Triple-A Durham for another two-three rehab games at Jacksonville. If all goes well — in terms of health, performance, weather and other factors — Franco could rejoin the Rays during the June 24-26 home series against the Pirates. “Potentially, yeah,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “It is exciting. Hopefully, all goes well.” Cash said Franco did well Friday in a second full workout in Port Charlotte. “Wander had another really good day,” he said. “Very encouraged by that.” In games Franco — a dynamic all-around player — has started at shortstop, the Rays are 25-14. In games he has been the designated hitter due to leg concerns or hasn’t played at all, they are 10-14. Reports on Luis Patino’s first rehab outing for Durham on Thursday were good, Cash said, in terms of how he felt, having been out since early April with an oblique strain, and how he looked, throwing 46 pitches over 2-2/3 innings. “I still think it’s very early in this process,” Cash said. Kiermaier better, Margot managed Kevin Kiermaier’s tight left Achilles/calf felt “much better.” He tested it running and was said to be available off the bench Friday. Assuming he feels good on Saturday, Kiermaier, who left Wednesday’s game in the third inning, will return to the lineup. … Outfielder Manuel Margot was surprisingly not in Friday’s lineup after serving as the DH on Thursday in New York. Cash said it stems from limiting activity as Margot is still dealing with leg issues after missing time in mid-May with a hamstring strain. “Travel day, just managing his leg workload,” Cash said. “Not sure how long this will continue, but want to get him feeling better. He’s not 100 percent, even though he will tell me he is.” Pitching in The Rays will be juggling their pitching staff for several days. They will have to drop a reliever after Sunday’s game, as all teams will be limited to 13 pitchers under a new Major League Baseball rule that was twice delayed to provide more build-up time for starters coming off the abbreviated spring training. They are likely to add a starter to face the Yankees on Tuesday, filling the opening created by Drew Rasmussen’s hamstring strain. Lefty Josh Fleming, an impressive 6-0 with a 0.98 ERA in six starts since being sent down, seems to be the top choice. He was scratched from Friday’s scheduled start for Durham with the expectation he will pitch Tuesday either for the Bulls or Rays. Miscellany Ji-Man Choi went into play Friday with a 15-game on-base streak. ... The three earned runs allowed by the Rays in New York were the fewest by a team being swept in three games since 2011 (Seattle, two, at Washington). ... Jeffrey Springs takes a 12-1/3-inning scoreless streak into his Saturday start. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.