ST. PETERSBURG — Shane McClanahan was texting Shane Baz as he progressed through his rehab assignment from spring arthroscopic elbow surgery. When it became clear the talented right-hander was ready to join the majors — slated to start Saturday at the Twins — McClanahan, 25, let a picture convey his thoughts, sending Baz a popular GIF of CSI Miami actor David Caruso putting on his sunglasses. “I said, “It’s time,’” McClanahan said. “This guy, he’s special. (Pitching coach Kyle Snyder) tells me a lot, ‘Put them on notice,’ and I think Shane’s about to put a lot of people on notice.” Baz wasn’t sure what to make of the message. “I didn’t know what show it was from,” he said. “It was just like a dude kind of putting his sunglasses on. I don’t know. I was like, what is that?” The result of being 22? “Yeah, I guess,” Baz said. “My mom loves those shows, though.” Baz said he got a few other inspirational messages. A friend sent a clip from the movie Saving Private Ryan about being “back in the battle now.” And his mom sent a Spotify link to the Aerosmith song “Back in the Saddle.” “I was like, there we go,” he said. The Rays have no question Baz is ready, and he is eager to go. “I’m definitely very excited and just honored that they want me to come help them,” he said. Expected to compete for a rotation spot during spring training after an impressive three-start cameo in 2021, Baz instead was sidelined unexpectedly to have a loose body removed from his elbow. He said he has no further issues, and his Sunday outing at Triple-A Durham, the fourth of his rehab starts, felt “totally back kind of like a normal start.” McClanahan has perspective McClanahan will enjoy the circumstances Thursday of going against a Cardinals team that includes storied veterans Yadier Molina, Albert Pujols and Adam Wainwright. “I grew up watching those guys … it’s going to be a lot of fun facing them,” he said. “It’s kind of like 10-year-old me is like, ‘Oh, my God, like, this is pretty cool.’ I envisioned this, and I’m excited to take the ball.” A Walls-off win Taylor Walls didn’t just make an indelible memory Tuesday hitting a three-run home run for his first career walkoff hit, he made history. It was the first two-out, two-strike walkoff homer for the Rays since Sean Rodriguez did it in 2014 and first with the Rays trailing since Carl Crawford’s blast on opening day 2003. … Walls got the ball back in a unique way, telling Bally Sports Sun’s Tricia Whitaker a fan waited for him to pull out of the parking lot after the game and waved him down. … Walls’ .147 average was the fourth-lowest for any player hitting a walkoff homer since 1901, per Stats LLC. Miscellany The first round of All-Star voting started Tuesday on mlb.com; Rays on the ballot are Ji-Man Choi, first base; Brandon Lowe, second; Yandy Diaz, third; Wander Franco, shortstop; Mike Zunino, catcher; Harold Ramirez, DH; and Randy Arozarena, Kevin Kiermaier and Manuel Margot, outfielders. ... Kiermaier on Tuesday picked up his 51th career outfield assist, tying Carl Crawford for second place in franchise history, one shy of B.J. Upton’s record. ... Luke Bard made his Rays debut, the 26th pitcher used (not counting outfielder Brett Phillips). • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.