ST. PETERSBURG — It has been interesting background noise over the past month or so. Now, the drumbeat is getting louder. Is Rays left-hander Shane McClanahan the best pitcher in baseball? After yet another gem, a 2-1 win Thursday afternoon against the Cardinals that completed a three-game sweep before 14,892 at Tropicana Field, it’s getting difficult to argue otherwise. It was the longest major-league outing for McClanahan (7-2), who went eight innings and allowed just two hits, struck out nine and walked one — his first walk in 17 innings. The Cardinals’ run was unearned, scoring on McClanahan’s sixth-inning throwing error, and he lowered his ERA to 1.87. The former USF standout was so efficient in his 94-pitch outing — a game time of 1 hour, 54 minutes — that manager Kevin Cash and pitching coach Kyle Snyder considered sending him out for the ninth inning to possibly finish the job. “I’m biased, but I’m going to say yes,” catcher Mike Zunino said when asked whether McClanahan should be considered the game’s top pitcher. “When you look at the strikeouts (a majors-leading 98 following the win) … and his stuff from the left side, if he’s not in the talks to be in the top three in the league, then I don’t know who is.” Said reliever Jason Adam, who earned his second save by pitching the ninth, “He’s lights-out. He’s arguably the best pitcher in baseball. In my book, he is.” McClanahan mixed all four of his pitches and maintained a consistent fastball velocity in the mid-90s. There were some hard-hit balls. There were a couple of gold-star defensive efforts — a lunging spear of a line drive by shortstop Taylor Walls and a running, diving catch in rightfield by Brett Phillips. But McClanahan generally baffled the Cardinals by staying ahead in the count and displaying his full arsenal. As for the big picture, McClanahan preferred for his teammates to apply those brush strokes. His focus was much smaller. “I don’t care,” he said when asked to assess his season as a whole. “I just want to win. I just want to help this team win a lot of ballgames, to be honest with you. I want to pitch in October and want to help this team get to where we want to be. I think there’s still a lot to do, a lot to improve upon.” As good as McClanahan performed, hard-luck loser Miles Mikolas (4-4) wasn’t far behind. The right-hander allowed three hits — including a two-run homer by Ji-Man Choi in the fourth that turned out to be the difference — in eight innings, walking none and striking out nine. One day after collecting a season-high 18 hits, the Rays (34-23) struggled to mount an offense. They went out 1-2-3 in six of their innings and had no runners left on base. “Mikolas showed a ton of pitch ability,” Cash said. “He had a really good mix going. There weren’t a lot of hard-hit balls on our end, so tip your cap. I’m just glad that we had Shane on the other side to combat that, and I’m appreciative of Ji-Man getting ahold of one.” After Choi’s shot, McClanahan pitched into the eighth for the first time ever, including his time at USF. He said he would’ve loved a shot at working the ninth but understood Cash’s rationale. McClanahan only made one mistake. After issuing a two-out walk to Paul Goldschmidt and surrendering a hard-hit single to Nolan Arenado, McClanahan misplayed a soft bouncer back to the box by Albert Pujols. He tried to barehand it but had his momentum going the wrong way and rushed the throw to first. It sailed down the line, letting in the only run for St. Louis. Other than that, McClanahan was mostly untouchable. When the Cardinals did hit the ball hard, McClanahan said he was backed up by an outfield defense that he called the best in the league. The best? It was an apt description of McClanahan’s effort. The way things are going, expect the drumbeat to get even louder. “Honestly, he’s the top pitcher on our team, as well as including all the 30 teams in the league right now‚” Choi said via interpreter Daniel Park. “I think he’s the best pitcher.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.