DENVER — J.T. Compher scored twice, Cale Makar had a goal and two assists and the Avalanche held off the Oilers 8-6 on Tuesday night in a fast-paced, no-lead-felt-safe Game 1 of the Western Conference final. The Avalanche’s eight goals were tied for the most in a playoff game in franchise history. Even Colorado’s four-goal lead in the second period hardly felt secure in a matchup between the two highest-scoring teams in the postseason— and the win wasn’t in hand until Gabriel Landeskog’s empty-net goal with 21.4 seconds remaining. Both teams needed to use backup goaltenders: Mike Smith was pulled after giving up six goals and Darcy Kuemper left with an upper-body injury. The goal-after-goal-after-goal routine had Hall of Famer Wayne Gretzky — the greatest scorer of all time — pleading on the TV broadcast for a little more “D.” The game is tied for 10th highest-scoring playoff game in NHL history, according to the league. This was a matchup billed as a showdown between stars Nathan MacKinnon and Connor McDavid and they delivered. MacKinnon had a goal and an assist for Colorado, and McDavid a goal and two assists for Edmonton. But it was the supporting casts that produced big time. Nazem Kadri, Mikko Rantanen and Andrew Cogliano also scored for the Avalanche, who have a 19-6 series record when taking the first game of a best-of-seven since relocating to Denver. Twelve Avs recorded at least a point and six had multi-point games. “Definitely have some things to clean up but happy we got the win,” MacKinnon said. Evander Kane, Zach Hyman, Ryan McLeod, Derek Ryan and Ryan Nugent-Hopkins added goals for the Oilers. Hyman has scored in six straight postseason games to tie the team mark set by Esa Tikkanen in the 1990 playoffs. Edmonton and Colorado scored six times over a 6:43 span — nearly a goal a minute. The opening two periods saw 11 total goals. At times, this looked more like an All-Star Game — lots of scoring, optional defense — rather than a conference final. Edmonton’s no stranger to dropping the first game of a series in high-scoring fashion: The Oilers lost Game 1 of the second-round series at Calgary 9-6 but won the series in five games. “We obviously have to change something here,” said Oilers forward Leon Draisaitl, who had two assists. “We can’t be giving up that many goals and expect to win a Western Conference final game.” Compher’s second goal of the night made it 6-3 and ended the night of Smith, who allowed six goals on 25 shots in just over 26 minutes. Mikko Koskinen came on in relief. “When you’re on the bench halfway through the game, it’s not a good sign,” Smith said. “In saying that, it’s one game.” Kuemper left the game in the second period as well, after surrendering three goals on 16 shots. He was replaced by Pavel Francouz. After Cogliano’s goal gave Colorado a 7-3 lead late in the second, it looked like the game might be in hand. But by 7:24 left in the third, Edmonton made it 7-6 on Nugent-Hopkins’ power-play goal. The Oilers pulled Koskinen with under two minutes left but couldn’t score despite a wave of chances. “We all know what kind of players are on these two teams and we didn’t plan to play such a game,” Francouz said. “But we take this win for sure and we move forward.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.