If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. There will be no three-peat for the Lightning. Nathan MacKinnon and Artturi Lehkonen scored in the second period as the Avalanche turned a one-goal deficit into a one-goal lead and went on to beat the Bolts 2-1 in Game 6 of the Stanley Cup final Sunday at Amalie Arena. With its third championship in its 42-season history and first since 2001, Colorado ended Tampa Bay’s two-year reign. It also snapped Lightning left wing Pat Maroon’s string of three straight titles (including 2019 with the Blues). Forward Corey Perry lost in the final for a third consecutive season with a third different team after falling short with the Stars and Canadiens the past two seasons. Avalanche defenseman Cale Makar, who had 29 points in 20 postseason games, was awarded the Conn Smythe Trophy as playoff MVP. It is the second time in three seasons the trophy went to a defenseman, as the Lightning’s Victor Hedman won in 2020. NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly, filling in for commissioner Gary Bettman (who tested positive for COVID), awarded the Stanley Cup to Colorado captain Gabriel Landeskog. Things started well for the Lightning, as they got a power play just 23 seconds into the game and captain Steven Stamkos scored an even-strength goal just over three minutes later to give Tampa Bay a 1-0 lead. But MacKinnon scored on a sharp-angle shot just under two minutes into the second period to tie the game, and Lehkonen scored the winner with just over 7-1/2 minutes remaining in the period after a MacKinnon pass kicked off the skate of Lightning defenseman Zach Bogosian to Lehkonen in the left circle. Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 28 of the 30 shots he faced. The Avalanche’s Darcy Kuemper made 22 saves on 23 shots. Here’s how it happened: Third period Erik Cernak shot blocked by Nathan MacKinnon Artturi Lehkonen snap shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Nikita Kucherov shot deflects behind the net Kucherov hits the post on 2-on-1 with Corey Perry MacKinnon wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Valeri Nichushkin wrist shot from in front saved by Vasilevskiy Nazem Kadri shoots off back wall on breakaway; blocked by Ryan McDonagh MacKinnon shot deflected out of play Vasilevskiy stops Nichushkin from in close Bowen Byram shot blocked by McDonagh Logan O’Connor shot deflected wide by Anthony Cirelli MacKinnon shot from left circle gloved by Vasilevskiy Nikita Kucherov double-shifting with the fourth line with just under 7 minutes to play Kuemper slides right to left to smother Kucherov shot from right circle Lightning pull Vasilevskiy in favor of an extra attacker with two minutes remaining Kucherov shot from right circle blocked by Landeskog, who loses his skate blade and has to crawl his way off the ice Avalanche ice the puck Kucherov shot blocked by MacKinnon Kucherov fans on shot Icing waved off (Avalanche win 2-1, win Stanley Cup 4-2) Second period Cale Makar shot wide of net Makar wrist shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Vasilevskiy skates to the bench to address issue with his mask Nathan MacKinnon wraparound attempt stopped by Vasilevskiy AVALANCHE GOAL: MacKinnon scores on sharp-angle shot from deep in left circle off edge of blocker on short side on delayed penalty. Lightning 1, Avalanche 1 (1:54) Cale Makar appears to be hurting as he skates to the bench Josh Manson slow to get up after being stopped on chance in front of Lightning net Darcy Kuemper makes right pad save on Corey Perry shot from right circle Artturi Lehkonen snap shot from low in right circle saved by Vasilevskiy Nikita Kucherov shot blocked by Bowen Byram Valeri Nichushkin hits the post Andrei Cogliano tip-in saved by Vasilevskiy Makar shot blocked by Mikhail Sergachev AVALANCHE GOAL: Artturi Lehkonen scores after puck bounces off Zach Bogosian onto his stick. Pat Maroon breaks his stick off Josh Manson’s skate after the goal. Avalanche 2, Lightning 1 (12:28) Ryan McDonagh penalized for boarding Darren Helm from behind into the end boards Nazem Kadri shot blocked by Mikhail Sergachev Bowen Byram shot blocked by Vasilevskiy Rantanen wrist shot saved by Vasileveskiy Lightning kill the penalty; Avalanche had two shots on goal Cogliano shot blocked by Nick Paul Erik Johnson wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy MacKinnon wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Rantanen shot blocked by Paul Logan O’Connor chance off Vasilevskiy’s stick (Avalanche lead 2-1 after two periods) First period Nathan MacKinnon snap shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy MacKinnon misses wide of the net Cale Makar penalized for interference against Brandon Hagel, and Lightning get a power play 23 seconds into the game Darren Helm clears the puck out of the zone Andrew Cogliano blocks Mikhail Serbachev shot from the center point and Colorado clears the puck. Cogliano hobbles to the bench, not putting any pressure on his left leg Avalanche kill the Makar penalty Nikita Kucherov snap shot from right circle stopped and frozen by Darcy Kuemper LIGHTNING GOAL! Steven Stamkos beats Kuemper through the legs after puck kicks off Ondrej Palat’s skate. Lightning 1, Avalanche 0 (3:48) Bowen Byram deflection saved by Vasilevskiy Pat Maroon wrist shot saved by Kuemper Valeri Nichushkin shoots over the net Zach Bogosian wrist shot saved by Kuemper Victor Hedman wrist shot saved by Kuemper Jan Rutta shot blocked by Alex Newhook Ondrej Palat snap shot saved by Kuemper Gabriel Landeskog shot blocked by Hedman Newhook shot blocked by Bogosian MacKinnon wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Landeskog slap shot saved by Vasilevskiy Sergachev misses net from high slot Alex Killorn shoots wide of the net Avalanche ice the puck Kucherov shot blocked by Cogliano Kucherov shot deflected wide by Devon Toews Avalanche again ice the puck MacKinnon shot from left circle blocked by Erik Cernak, who is hurting as he goes to the bench Jack Johnson shot through traffic goes off Vasilevskiy Jan Rutta limps off the ice and leaves for the dressing room Nazem Kadri stopped by Vasilevskiy at point-blank range MacKinnon shot blocked by Stamkos Artturi Lehkonen chance from top of crease hits right post (4:25 left) Rutta returns to Lightning bench Rutta back on the ice Stamkos knocks down MacKinnon with a shoulder-to-shoulder hit (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report It’s all there for the taking, or the leaving. The Lightning can make history, or become a footnote to it. Win the final two games of the Stanley Cup final, and they’ll become the first team since the Islanders of 1980-83 to win three or more consecutive NHL championships. But lose one, and they’ll join the Penguins, Red Wings and Oilers as teams that fell short in their bid for a third straight title. They’ll still be the best team of the salary-cap era (since 2005-06) by virtue of their back-to-back Cups and third straight appearance in the final — an incredible feat under any circumstances, let alone during a pandemic. But as they’ve reminded us all season, they’re hungry for more. And it’s within reach. If they can stay out of the penalty box, avoid the slow starts that plagued them early in the series and force the Avalanche to play at their pace, there’s no reason they can’t win tonight in Tampa and Tuesday in Denver. They have the wisdom gained from more than 70 playoff games over the past three seasons and the mettle forged by surviving four potential elimination games during that span, including three this postseason. But if the Lightning are motivated by the chance to make history, so are the Avalanche. Win either remaining game, and Colorado will claim the Cup for the first time in more than two decades and only the third time in its 42-season history, including its days as the Quebec Nordiques. Like the 2019 Lightning, who tied a league record with 62 regular-season wins before being swept by the Blue Jackets in the opening round of the playoffs, the Avalanche ache to change their postseason narrative. So, who will it be? Lightning or Avalanche? League history or franchise history? We’ll find out tonight, or Tuesday at the latest. Game night scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.