Roughly 30 minutes after sinking a clutch birdie putt to lift he and Tom Brady to victory in the pair’s latest celebrity golf outing, Aaron Rodgers delivered a wicked slice. To the Bucs QB’s ego, not to mention his post-football narrative of “giving back” to the game. Arguably the best barb of “The Match,” the made-for-TV event that pitted the Rodgers/Brady tandem against Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes and Bills quarterback Josh Allen, came in the waning moments of the round table-type interview moderated by TNT’s Ernie Johnson after the 12-hole contest. It began with Brady being asked about his post-retirement gig — reportedly worth $375 million over 10 years — as a lead NFL analyst for Fox Sports. In a drawn-out response, Brady, 44, spoke of traveling to various team headquarters during a game week, observing practices in preparation for the job, and possibly sharing his expertise with younger players. “How do you give back?” Brady said. “How do you give back to a sport that’s given so much to me? And I think that I have a lot of education around it, and I’m excited when that time comes, to fully focus on that and give back to the game in a way that so many people have supported me and taught me things. “And I think part of the enjoyment and the entertainment of it will be giving back to these guys and seeing these guys maximize their opportunities as well.” When Brady finished, Rodgers immediately cracked: “You ever got paid so much for giving back?” The jab drew a hearty laugh from Mahomes and Allen. Even Johnson chimed in, saying, “That’s an excellent line.” “It’s very well said,” Brady told Rodgers. “Thank you, considering someone who has the most massive contract in NFL history.” Rodgers signed an extension with the Green Bay Packers in March that reportedly will pay him slightly more than $150 million over the next three years. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.