Southwest Florida remains the expected landing spot for the Atlantic hurricane season’s first storm of the summer, the National Hurricane Center said in a Friday afternoon update. Forecasters expect the storm to organize into Tropical Storm Alex on Friday night before making landfall sometime Saturday afternoon near Fort Myers. As it arrives, it’s expected to dump as much as eight inches of rain in Southwest Florida and bring significant showers to nearly all of central and south Florida. The system’s path toward the Sunshine State has remained the same since Tuesday. The same goes for the system’s expected strength as a weak tropical storm at the time of landfall. The National Hurricane Center says the system’s biggest threat will be heavy rainfall that could induce isolated flooding. The hurricane center issued tropical storm warnings on Friday morning that stretched from the Florida Keys north along the coast to Longboat Key, just south of the Tampa Bay area, and inland Manatee and Polk counties. A warning was also issued for southeast Florida, portions of Cuba and the northwestern Bahamas. Despite a forecast of significant rainfall in Tampa Bay this weekend, local meteorologists say severe flooding shouldn’t be a worry for the region. Rainfall totals aren’t expected to eclipse four inches in even the hardest-hit areas of Tampa Bay. While Tampa Bay isn’t expected to experience tropical storm conditions itself, it will still be a windy Saturday here. The National Weather Service says sustained winds between nine to 17 mph can be expected, as well as more powerful gusts The same applies to rainfall chances, which are slightly lower in Tampa Bay than to its south. There is a 60 percent chance of rain Friday night and a 70 percent chance on Saturday for the region. Those chances dip down to just 20 percent by Sunday, though isolated thunderstorms are a possibility each day. • • • 2022 Tampa Bay Times Hurricane Guide IT'S STORM SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane. RISING THREAT: Tampa Bay will flood. Here's how to get ready. DOUBLE-CHECK: Checklists for building all kinds of hurricane kits PHONE IT IN: Use your smartphone to protect your data, documents and photos. SELF-CARE: Protect your mental health during a hurricane. • • • Rising Threat: A special report on flood risk and climate change PART 1: The Tampa Bay Times partnered with the National Hurricane Center for a revealing look at future storms. PART 2: Even weak hurricanes can cause huge storm surges. Experts say people don't understand the risk. PART 3: Tampa Bay has huge flood risk. What should we do about it? INTERACTIVE MAP: Search your Tampa Bay neighborhood to see the hurricane flood risk.