Westfield Brandon is welcoming 10 new businesses this year, according to statement from the mall Wednesday. The first five stores and restaurants have already opened during the fast half of 2022 and the next half are expected to debut over the summer. In addition to the openings, casual apparel store Tilly’s and Crocs have remodeled and expanded, Westfield Brandon said. “The addition of so many national, regional and local favorites demonstrate how Westfield Brandon is a premier shopping center that offers brands and experiences our customers crave,” Dawn Arvidson, Westfield Brandon’s marketing director, said in a statement. From grilled cheese to wig shops, here’s what coming to the mall off of Interstate 75 in one of the fastest-growing suburbs in the Tampa Bay area. ALREADY OPEN Ardene: A boutique with accessories, jewelry, shoes, clothing from comfy basics and new trends. Fresh selections are added weekly. It’s located near the Books-A-Million store. Intimissimi Italian Lingerie: An Italian lingerie, underwear and pajama shop. It can be found near M.A.C. Cosmetics. Planet Grilled Cheese: Like the name suggests, a dining option with a range of grilled cheese sandwiches that can be filled with mac and cheese, fried mozzarella sticks or somewhat healthier options like tomato, feta and baby spinach. It reopened in the food court after being temporarily closed. Reeds Jewelers: A jewelry company with engagement rings, wedding bands, watches and supplies popular brands like Pandora and Rolex. The jewelry shop accepts payment in bitcoin in all of its stores, according to its website. It’s located by the center court. The Wig Factory: This store offers human-hair wigs, hair bundles and extensions. It also includes hair care products, accessories and makeup. Find it near Macy’s. COMING SOON HeyTea: This cafe has a menu specializing in boba tea drinks. It’ll be located by the food court and set to open in July. Clasico Italian Chophouse: This will be a contemporary Italian restaurant offering a “big city dining” experience. It will open in the restaurant courtyard in August. Chapter 11 Brew Pub: Also opening in the restaurant courtyard, this brew pub and smokehouse will have beer, barbeque and games. It’s opening is set for August. Garage: A clothing store with trendy outfits and accessories specifically for young women. The opening is planned for August and will be near the center court. Lovisa: This jewelry brand specializes in trendy jewelry and accessories at affordable prices. It’s set to open in October by the Journeys Kidz store.