Whites fear crazy white people, too Why Black people are afraid of ‘crazy’ white people | Column, June 9 Columnist Jonathan Capehart explains that most Black Americans live in fear of crazy white people and then defined the crazy aspect as being those willing to do whatever it takes to preserve and enhance white majority and control. It was a good read. I would add that many white people also live in fear of crazy white people. The white supremacists and conspiracy theorists for whom all logic, reason and compassion are absent are the extremes of society and should be a concern to us all. David L. Frishkorn, Tampa Teens at risk Florida should rejoin teen risk survey | Editorial, June 3 As a long-time advocate for teens, I am concerned about our community’s ability to meet the mental health needs of this age group — particularly in light of the pandemic. Teens are in crisis. There is no end in sight, and public schools are struggling to meet their needs. This is mostly due to staff vacancies and funding shortages. We must find solutions and fast. I propose that in addition to social workers and psychologists, schools should have behavioral health staff that are not required to have a graduate degree, but are trained as crisis intervention advocates for students. Amber Johansen, Tampa Vote by foot or ballot DeSantis harpoons the Tampa Bay Rays | Another voice, June 8 The Wall Street Journal editorial board cautions businesses and ball clubs if they take a stand on a political issue that their patrons can boycott them. Similarly, if the governor continues to bash businesses and ball clubs because they take a stand on a political issue, they can move out of the state. The Journal’s editorial, however, failed to mention that if the citizens of Florida get sick enough of the governor bashing businesses and ball clubs for their political positions, they can vote him out of office. Betsy Clement, Dunedin Who should be watching Hearings are a must-see for American democracy | Editorial, June 9 Unfortunately, the very people who need to watch and hear the Jan. 6 hearings will either continue to bury their heads in the sand or continue to maintain the hearings are just a politically motivated witch hunt. It’s appalling that a major network, Fox News, is refusing to air it live; they are more concerned about catering to what their viewership wants to hear than airing events of national importance in real time. Christine Simpson, Tampa