ST. PETERSBURG — Manuel Margot wasn’t in the first lineup the Rays drafted for tonight’s game, and he wasn’t happy about it. He felt his legs are fine so he talked his way into playing. Now Margot will be in rightfield and hitting third, with Brett Phillips, who was to play right, on the bench. Margot recently returned from an injured list stint due to a right hamstring strain and was taken out of the ninth inning Thursday because Rays coaches didn’t like how he was moving. The Rays also have Vidal Brujan at shortstop for a second straight game, as Taylor Walls — who was filling in for injured Wander Franco — is limited by a sore right calf after fouling a ball off it a few days ago. Walls is said to be available off the bench tonight and potentially start Saturday. The Rays have their ace on the mound in hard-throwing lefty Shane McClanahan. Also Friday, the Rays put JP Feyereisen, one of their top relievers, on the injured list due to a shoulder impingement (MRI results pending) and recalled Calvin Faucher. The White Sox had to make an adjustment to their plans as well, as scheduled starter Vince Velasquez strained his groin while shagging balls during batting practice Wednesday wasn’t able to pitch. Right-handed rookie Davis Martin, who made his big-league debut on May 17, was called up from Triple-A. Martin is 5-2, 3.80 in nine starts for Triple-A Charlotte, last pitching on Saturday against the Rays’ Triple-A Durham team. Sox manager Tony La Russa, the Tampa native and Hall of Famer, said it was good to be back in his hometown and had his sister and a bunch of other friends and relatives coming to the game. Here is the Rays’ updated lineup: And for the White Sox: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.