If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Ondrej Palat’s goal with 42 seconds remaining completed a comeback from a two-goal deficit as the Lightning defeated the Rangers 3-2 in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference final Sunday at Amalie Arena. With its first win of the series and first victory over New York in six tries this season, Tampa Bay narrowed its deficit to 2-1 heading to Game 4 Tuesday in Tampa. Nikita Kucheov, who had a goal and two assists, set up Palat’s goal with a nifty backhand pass from the slot. Power-play goals from Mika Zibanejad and Chris Kreider had given New York a 2-0, second-period lead before Kucherov scored with the man-advantage to put Tampa Bay on the scoreboard. Steven Stamkos’ power-play goal early in the third period tied the game at 2. Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 28 of 30 shots in his best game of the series. Here’s how it happened: Third period Ryan Strome did not return to the Rangers bench for the start of the period Jacob Trouba penalized for holding Anthony Cirelli after strong shift from Cirelli line Andrei Vasilevskiy covers bad-angle shot from the corner LIGHTNING GOAL! Steven Stamos scores power-play goal on one-timer from left circle after cross-ice pass from Corey Perry (18:38 left). Lightning 2, Rangers 2. Nick Paul turnaround shot from the left circle blocked Shesterkin makes blocker save on Hedman from the right circle Shesterkin makes left pad save on Cernak blast Vasilevskiy catches Kreider bad-angle shot from low in the left circle Vasilevskiy makes a save as Frank Vatrano drives into him, with McDonagh leaning into him Vatrano penalized for goaltender interference Goodrow is hurting after blocking a Hedman shot from the right point Lindrgren deflects Kucherov shot into the corer Perry shoots over the net Kucherov one-timer blocked by Trouba Rangers kill the penalty; eight Lightning shot attempts, two on goal Goodrow goes to the Ranger locker room with apparent foot injury Goodrow returns to the bench Strome has been ruled out with a lower-body injury Copp shot off the rush goes off arm of Vasilevskiy Kucherov receives a four-minute double minor for high-sticking Zibanajad after fanning on a shot at the offensive blue line (9:04 to play) Vasilevskiy stops Zibanejad shot Paul nearly has shorthanded attempt Trouba draws a tripping penalty for taking down Killorn after puck skips past him at the blue line (7:31) We’ll have 4-on-4 play for two minutes, followed by 27 seconds of Ranger power-play time Shesterkin stops Killorn from the left circle Rangers kill the Trouba penalty Killorn shorthanded chance smothered by Shesterkin Kucherov out of the box, both teams back to full strength Brandon Hagel drives to the net Hagel shot blocked by Panarin LIGHTNING GOAL! Ondrej Palat scores on backhanded pass from Nikita Kucherov. Lightning 3, Rangers 2. (Lightning win 3-2, trail series 2-1) Second period Igor Shesterkin makes left pad save on Victor Hedman shot from left circle Ryan McDonagh shot from the left point gloved by Shesterkin Ryan Strome leaves for Rangers locker room after getting pushed from behind Anthony Cirelli tip from the top of the crease of McDonagh shot goes just wide Barclay Goodrow shot goes off Vasilevskiy’s helmet Artemi Panarin shot from the slot blocked by Vasileveskiy Panarin shot from right circle hits Vasileskiy in the midsection Corey Perry shot from the right circle gloved by Shesterin. Colton jabs his stick into Shesterkin’s left pad and Lindgren goes after him. Colton (cross-checking) and Lindgren (roughing) are both penalized, resulting in 4-on-4 play for two minutes Mika Zibanejad penalized for interference against Alex Killorn after Chris Kreider giveaway, giving the Lightning a 4-on-3 power play for 1:45 (14:54 left in period) Stamkos shot from slot blocked into the corner by Shesterkin K’Andre Miller steals the puck from Kucherov and Rangers nearly score off the resulting 2-on-1 after Goodrow hits the post Corey Perry penalized for slashing after getting his stick into Shesterkin’s mask. We’ll have 3-on-3 for 13 seconds, then 4-on-4 for 12 seconds Rangers now have about a minute and a half of power-play time RANGERS GOAL: Zibanejad scores a power-play goal on one-timer from left circle after cross-ice pass from Fox. Rangers 1, Lightning 0. (12:23 left) Riley Nash penalized for goaltender interference, and the Rangers go back on the power play Zibanejad shot from left circle saved by Vasilevskiy RANGERS GOAL: Chris Kreider scores on rebound from top of crease after getting inside position on McDonagh. Rangers 2, Lightning 0. Rangers get the puck out of the zone Trouba penalized for interfering with Ondrej Palat LIGHTNING GOAL! Nikita Kucherov scores on the power play, a one-timer from low in the right circle. Rangers 2, Lightning 1. Jan Rutta one-timer from the right point deflects into the corner Filip Chytil shot blocked by Brandon Hagel Zach Bogosian one-timer from the right circle saved by Shesterkin Vasilevskiy catches Alexis Lafrenière shot from left circle Nick Paul shoots up over the net Frank Vatrano shot from left circle saved by Vasilevskiy (Rangers lead 2-1 after two periods) First period Jan Rutta shot wide of the net Nikita Kucherov shot blocked by Ryan Strome K’Andre Miller wrist shot from center point misses wide Ryan McDonagh shot from the left sideboards saved by Igor Shesterkin Shesterkin gloves shot from the right point Andrei Vasilevskiy makes pad save on Andrew Copp shot from left circle Shesterkin gloves Kucherov snap shot from left circle Filip Chytil turnaround shot from low in right circle stopped by Vasilevskiy K’Andre Miller shoots wide from left circle Vasilevskiy makes right pad save on Vincent Trouba blast from right circle after McDonagh turnover McDonagh shot saved blocked away by Shesterkin Kucherov shot from short side saved by Shesterkin Stamkos shot misses high and wide Kucherov penalized for high-sticking against Artemi Panarin Chris Kreider has a couple of chances from in front Pierre-Edouard Bellemare holds in the puck in the Rangers zone Erik Cernak intercepts a pass in the neutral zone and sends puck down the ice Anthony Cirelli clears the puck out of the zone Copp shot from left circle goes off Vasilevskiy’s glove and out of the zone Trouba blast caroms off McDonagh Shesterkin robs Kucherov on breakaway right out of the box Trouba blocks Kucherov shot Vasilevskiy stops Goodrow, Motte and Reaves from point-blank range Shesterkin makes pad save on Bogosian shot and Maroon rebound attempt Shesterkin stops Brandon Hagel chance from edge of the crease Hedman breaks up Trouba pass for Copp on 2-on-1 Panarin shot from right circle blocked by sprawling Hedman Vasileskiy fights off shot from Trouba from the right point that bounces and skips on him Ross Colton shot misses wide Stamkos shot from the slot knocked down and swept into the corner by Shesterkin (Scoreless tie after one period) Pregame scouting report Have the Lightning finally met their match? Certainly, there are things in the Rangers’ style of play that mirror the Lightning’s. They play a tight defensive game and are highly disciplined. They take few risks, which limits odd-man rushes. When things do break down, they have a top-of-the-line goaltender to back them up. Two games into the series, the Rangers have done a better job of impersonating the Lightning than the two-time defending champions have, pushing the Bolts to within two losses of playoff elimination. Of course, the Lightning have been their own worst enemy too often in this series. They’ve had trouble managing the puck and missed coverage assignments. They’ve spent too much time in the penalty box. The good news is that they seemed to rediscover important parts of their game over the final period-plus of Game 2, which they lost 3-2. They became more active on their skates. Their passing improved. They got pucks behind the Rangers defense, won battles and started their cycle game, resulting in more offensive-zone time. They had the bulk of the possession time in the third period and outshot the Rangers 14-6. Nick Paul’s goal with a sixth attacker on the ice brought them within one, and only a Jacob Trouba block of a Steven Stamkos shot kept the Lightning from tying the game in the final minute. In many ways, it was reminiscent of Game 3 of the opening-round series against Toronto. Tampa Bay lost 5-2 but seemed to rediscover missing parts of its game: getting players to the front of the net, putting shots on goal, keeping pucks alive and generating second and third chances. The Lightning came within a goal of rallying from a three-score deficit before allowing two late empty-net goals. More importantly, they sustained that level of play for the remainder of the series, winning three of the final four games to eliminate the Maple Leafs. Can they do it again with a Stanley Cup Final berth on the line? Follow our live updates, starting at 3 p.m., as the Bolts seek their first win of the series and to avoid falling within a game of playoff elimination. Game day scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.