If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Steven Stamkos scored midway through the second period, and the Lightning lead the Rangers 1-0 in the third period of Game 6 of the Eastern Conference final at Amalie Arena. Tampa Bay can clinch a third consecutive Stanley Cup final berth with a victory. If they lose, the Bolts will have a second chance Tuesday in Game 7 since they lead the best-of-seven series 3-2. Lightning defenseman Victor Hedman went to the locker room shortly before Stamkos’ goal after being clipped in the chin by the Rangers’ Alexis Lafreniere. Follow our live updates throughout the game: Third period Victor Hedman is back on the ice for the Lightning, but Ryan Strome is missing from the Rangers bench Brandon Hagel sharp-angle shot saved by Igor Shesterkin Corey Perry penalized for high-sticking Filip Chytil on an attempted stick lift, and the Rangers get their first power play (17:35 to play) Mika Zibanejad one-timer goes off Erik Cernak into the corner Cernak blocks a shot with his right hand and clears the puck out of the zone before going to the bench Sergachev forces a Chytil giveaway at the blue line Cernak leaves for the dressing room Jan Rutta sends the puck out along the boards Lightning kill the penalty Shesterkin stops Hagel down low Vasilevskiy stops Trouba and Copp in quick succession Hagel shot goes over the net Cirelli wrist shot saved by Shesterkin Sergachev wrist shot saved by Shesterkin, who freezes the puck Cernak back on the ice Trouba shot from right point blocked by Vasilevskiy Centering pass of skate of Trouba knocked away by Shesterkin Second period Cirelli drove to the net, but Shesterkin makes glove save on backhand attempt from in tight Hedman blast from left point blocked by Ryan Lindgren Shesterkin robs Nikita Kucherov from low in the left circle Braden Schneider shot blocked by Mikhail Sergachev Jacob Trouba knocks Corey Perry to the ice with a high hit, setting off a short skirmish. Perry didn’t have the puck, so it should have been an interference penalty, but nothing is called Mikhail Sergachev and Kevin Rooney receive matching roughing penalties, and we’ll have two minutes of 4-on-4 play Kucherov cross-ice pass hops over Stamkos’ stick Both players are out of the penalty box Artemi Panarin shot saved by Vasilevskiy Sergachev shot blocked by Trouba Sergachev wrist shot saved by Shesterkin Cirelli quick shot from left circle misses wide Alexis Lafreniere blocks Ross Colton shot Hedman smashes his stick into the boards in frustration after being clipped in the chin by Lafreniere Pat Maroon skates to the front of the net but is stopped by Shesterkin Hedman leaves for the locker room LIGHTNING GOAL! Steven Stamkos scores on a wrist shot from top of right circle that goes around Ryan Lindgren’s legs and under the pad and over the blocker of Shesterkin. Lightning 1, Rangers 0 (9:17 left in period) Zach Bogosian backhander stopped by Shesterkin Artemi Panarin penalized for high-sticking Erik Cernak in the mouth, putting Lightning on the power play for the first time Stamkos doesn’t get much wood on a one-timer from the left circle Rangers kill the penalty Shesterkin stops point-blank shot from Palat Killorn drives to the front of the net but is stopped by Shesterkin Killorn shap shot saved by Shesterkin Trouba shot saved by Vasilevskiy (Lightning lead 1-0 after two periods) First period Alexis Lafreniere shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Anthony Cirelli deflection saved by Igor Shesterkin Victor Hedman shot blocked by Mika Zibanejad Hedman shot from left point misses wide Jan Rutta shot blocked by Jacob Trouba Andrew Copp shot saved by Vasilevskiy Pat Maroon tip from just outside crease saved by Shesterkin after Riley Nash bats down Shesterkin clearing attempt above the right circle Anthony Cirelli shot blocked by Frank Vatrano Alex Killorn tips Ryan McDonagh shot up over the net Vatrano shot saved by Vasilevskiy Steven Stamkos backhander from sharp angle saved by Shesterkin Nick Paul shot from the right wing on 3-on-2 wide of the net Erik Cernak shot blocked into the corner by Braden Schneider Filip Chytil backhander stopped by Vasilevskiy Chytil one-timer from the point wide of the net Nash shot from right circle saved by Shesterkin Steven Stamkos one-timer from left circle hits post Brandon Hagel snap shot saved by Shesterkin Mikhail Sergachev blast from left point wide of net Zach Bogosian shot blocked by K’Andre Miller Shesterkin makes left skate save on Pierre-Edouard Bellemare tip of Hedman shot Ross Colton misses wide Ondrej Palat shot from slot blocked by Miller Chris Kreider drive from left point deflected into the netting Ryan Lindgren wrist shot from left point wide of net Colton runs over Adam Fox at the Lightning blue line Lafreniere shot blocked by Hedman Lafreniere backhand down low saved by Vasilevskiy Cernak hits Schneider along the boards Killorn shoots wide Panarin shot from top of slot saved by Vasilevskiy Shesterkin  makes left pad save on Cirelli backhand at point-blank range after Hagel sent him in alone with just under a minute left in the period (Lightning, Rangers tied 0-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report It hasn’t happened often over the past three seasons, but every once in a while a team gets a chance to knock the Lightning out of the playoffs. If they don’t take advantage of it, well, it’s the only shot they get. The Islanders had opportunities in 2020 and ‘21. The Maple Leafs had one in Round 1. And the Rangers had their shot in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference final, up two games in the series and two goals in the game. They failed to close out the game and now find themselves on the cusp of elimination, while the Lightning need just one win in the next two games to clinch a third straight trip to the Stanley Cup final. Is the series over? Not yet. Is it tilting precipitously in the Bolts’ direction? You bet. The Lightning know how to close out a playoff series, because they created their own blueprint while winning 10 over the past three seasons. The Rangers’ best chance was to knock out the Bolts out early, while they were shaking the rust from an extended layoff and goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy was trying to regain his rhythm. The Lightning turned things around in the second half of Game 2 by limiting giveaways, playing better defense and staying out of the penalty box. And while the final scores haven’t always reflected it, it’s been a pretty one-sided series ever since, particularly during 5-on-5 play. Will the Lightning get the Rangers’ best effort tonight, with their season on the line? Maybe. But they might already have gotten it in Game 5, with New York playing on home ice, where it had won eight straight, and needing a win to regain control of a series that seemed to be slipping from its grasp. What’s more likely is the Lightning sense the opportunity in front of them — a chance to advance and compete for a third straight Cup — and adopt the closer’s mentality that helped them to titles the past two postseasons. It doesn’t mean it will happen, but the odds are in their favor. Even against a team that is 5-0 in elimination games this postseason. Will the Bolts lock things down defensively and close out the Rangers either tonight in Tampa or Tuesday in New York? We’ve seen it before. They’re 8-2 in series when leading three games to two. Chances are, we’ll see it again. Follow our live updates, starting at 8 p.m., as the Lightning get the first of two chances to put away the Rangers and advance to a third straight Cup final and fourth in eight seasons. Game night scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.