If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Nikita Kucherov scores on a 4-on-3 power play, and the Lightning lead the Avalanche 2-1 in the third period of Game 5 of the Stanley Cup final at Ball Arena in Denver. Tampa Bay defenseman Jan Rutta opened the scoring on a long-range shot with 4:37 to play in the first period. Colorado tied it when Valeri Nichushkin scored on a rebound of a Cale Makar shot just over five minutes into the second. The Avalanche lead the best-of-seven series three games to one. The Lightning need to win the final three games of the series to keep their hopes of becoming the first team in 40 years to win three straight NHL championships alive. Lightning defenseman Erik Cernak returned after taking a Nathan MacKinnon shot off his left leg in Game 4. Center Anthony Cirelli (arm) also is in the lineup. Center Brayden Point (lower body) was scratched for the 13th time in the past 15 games. Avalanche forward Andre Burakovsky, who scored the winning goal in overtime of Game 1 before missing the past two games with a hand injury suffered during Game 2, also was scratched. Follow our live updates throughout the game: Third period Waiting for period to start Second period Mikko Rantanen shot blocked by Victor Hedman Puck comes off Nazem Kadri’s stick on wraparound attempt after Andrei Vasilevskiy pokecheck Andrew Cogliano shot goes off Vasilevskiy’s blocker and up into the netting Nathan MacKinnon wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Pat Maroon shoots off the left side of the net Nikita Kucherov shot goes off Josh Manson into the corner Stamkos gets open in slot but deflects puck wide Lightning ice the puck AVALANCHE GOAL: Nichushkin gets inside position on Paul in the crease and backhands a rebound of a Makar shot from above the right circle that Vasilevskiy couldn’t handle. Lightning 1, Avalanche 1 (5:07) Alex Killorn penalized for holding J.T. Compher and Compher penalized for holding Killorn’s stick, so we’ll have 4-on-4 play for two minutes Makar penalized for tripping Palat, giving Lightning a 4-on-3 power play for 1:29. Tampa Bay puts four forwards on the ice (6:58) Stamkos misses net on one-timer from left circle Kucherov wrist shot blocked by Josh Manson LIGHTNING GOAL! Kucherov scores 4-on-3 power-play goal from center point after Stamkos fakes shot from left circle. Lightning 2, Avalanche 1 (8:10) Pat Maroon takes down Nathan MacKinnon after play was stopped when Vasilevskiy’s mask came off Hedman and Sergachev preventing MacKinnon from splitting them on the rush Makar prevents Cirelli scoring chance at the other end Ross Colton penalized for high-sticking Logan O’Connor MacKinnon shot wide of the net MacKinnon one-timer from left circle blocked by Erik Cernak Vasilevskiy deflects Makar stick out of play after Makar split two defensemen MacKinnon one-timer saved by Vasilevskiy Vasilevskiy makes glove save on Kadri shot from left circle Lightning kill the Colton penalty Stamkos can’t get off a shot from in close Sergachev breaks up Nichushkin chance on the rush (Lightning lead 2-1 after two periods) First period Devon Toews drive from left point squeezed between pads of Andrei Vasilevskiy Lightning ice the puck Lightning again ice the puck Ondrej Palat wrist shot saved by Ondrej Palat Victor Hedman closes out Nazem Kadri against the boards Jack Johnson puts punishing hit on Pierre-Edouard Bellemare at offensive blue line Kuemper covers tip from Palat J.T. Compher penalized for high-sticking Palat, Lightning go on the power play (1-14 in series, 1 for last 20 dating back to ECF) Ross Colton shot from right circle hits Kuemper in the midsection Cale Makar bangs the puck around the boards and out of the zone Colton couldn’t get it in deep, and Andrew Cogliano clears the puck Artturi Lehkonen clears the puck Nikita Kucherov looks for Palat tip in front Valeri Nichushkin prevents Corey Perry from getting puck over to Hedman at left post Hedman shot defelects into the corner Avalanche kill the penalty; Lightning had one shot on goal Bowen Byram throws puck in front of the net and it’s covered by Vasilevskiy Vasilevskiy gloves Erik Johnson shot from left point Nazem Kadri penalized for hooking Nick Paul (6:58) on the backcheck, Lightning’s second power play in seven minutes Kuemper makes glove save on fluttering shot from Perry from above the circles Toews clears the puck out of the zone Avalanche again clear the puck Nichushkin skates the puck out of the zone Toews shot wide of the net Avalanche kill the penalty and Kadri skates puck out of the zone Cale Makar shot hits Kadri Kuemper makes glove save on Hagel wrist shot from high in right circle (10:00) Hedman misses net from left circle Kucherov shot from center point steered aside Kadri shot from slot on delayed penalty gets behind Vasilevskiy but wide out of the net Steven Stamkos penalized for tripping Nathan MacKinnon as he drives to the net (11:17) Lightning clear puck out of the zone Paul shorthanded chance from the slot misses wide Cernak breaks up Landeskog centering pass Lehkonen chance from in front goes up over the net Vasilevskiy makes pad save on MacKinnon one-timer from left circle Cirelli clears the puck out of the zone Bellemare forces a turnover and Lightning clear the puck Vasilevskiy catches Nichushkin shot from left point Lightning kill the penalty Vasilevskiy makes right pad save on Helm shot from the high slot Alex Newhook shot from right circle saved by Vasilevskiy LIGHTNING GOAL! Jan Rutta blast from right point beats Kuemper under the glove; Rutta’s first goal of the playoffs. Lightning 1, Avalanche 0 (4:37 left) Kadri shot from in close goes off Vasilevskiy’s pads MacKinnon shot from right circle deflected wide MacKinnon beats Vasilevskiy through the legs on a breakaway but misses wide Landeskog wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Makar shot blocked by Hagel (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report The Stanley Cup is in the building. That’s not a good thing. At least, not yet. That’s because the Lightning are three wins away from the four needed to earn the NHL’s championship trophy. Meanwhile, the Avalanche, who lead the Stanley Cup final 3-1, can end the Bolts’ two-season reign as early as tonight in Game 5. Tampa Bay has come back from two-game deficits before, dropping the first two games to the Rangers before winning the next four in the Eastern Conference final. And it has persevered in elimination games, taking Games 6 and 7 of its opening-round series to move past Toronto. But never over the past three postseasons have the Lightning been down so far so late in a playoff series. The overtime loss in Game 4 was hard to take, as Colorado had too many men on the ice at the time Nazem Kadri scored the winning goal 12 minutes into the extra period. The league explained in a statement after the game that too-many-men-on-the-ice calls are not subject to video review. While disappointed, Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper said Thursday his team has moved past the loss and turned its focus to its remaining games. If it hasn’t, it could be a quick end to the series. That’s unlikely, given the makeup of the Lightning. They are a proud group, with veteran leaders throughout their dressing room, a recipe for postseason success and more playoff wins (94) than any NHL team since 2010. They also have plenty of motivation: a chance to become the first team to win three consecutive Cups since the Islanders won four from 1980-83. And they’re likely feeling cheated by the outcome of Game 4. Can they pull off the unthinkable? The odds aren’t in their favor. Teams down 3-1 in best-of-seven Cup final series are 1-35. The only team to win was the 1942 Maple Leafs, who rallied from a 3-0 deficit against the Red Wings. Then again, the Lightning won three or more straight games on nine different occasions during the regular season. But they can’t do it all at once. And they’re facing their most formidable opponent yet. The steep uphill climb begins tonight in Game 5. Game night scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.