ST. PETERSBURG — The Rays had seen enough of Ryan Yarbrough. Or at least the way he was pitching, optioning the 30-year-old veteran left-hander to Triple-A Durham and planning to activate Shane Baz to take his place in the rotation. “Extremely tough decision,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said before Tuesday’s game with St. Louis. “We’ve kind of wrapped our heads around this for a little while. I know ‘Yarbs,’ what he’s contributed to our club, has been incredibly impactful. Just felt like at this given time, we’re better positioned with the five starters that we have.” Baz now will be the fifth, joining the rotation this weekend in Minnesota, starting Friday or Saturday. Baz on Sunday made his fourth and final rehab start for Durham, striking out 10 over 4-1/3 innings as he completed his recovery from spring arthroscopic elbow surgery. Baz, 22, made his debut in September, making three starts in the regular season and one in the division series. “He checked every box along the way throughout his rehab,” Cash said. “You could argue he’s had a more normal progression build-up than anybody on this roster. We were really pleased with the way he threw the other night. It seems like he backed up each outing to translate into helping us win games. And we’re excited to have him here.” Yarbrough last pitched Sunday, allowing six runs and eight hits to the White Sox without getting through the second inning. In seven games, he was  0-3 with a 5.65 ERA, allowing 34 hits and 10 walks in 28-2/3 innings. “We feel very confident he’s going to continue to contribute,” Cash said. “I think there are things that he can go down there and find some consistency and rhythm with.But it definitely doesn’t make it easier in the moment. Certainly for Yarbs.” Yarbrough, who still will get his $3.85 million salary in the minors, has a 37-26, 4.38 mark over parts of five seasons with the Rays. Lowe, Franco updates Cash said Brandon Lowe (low back discomfort) and Wander Franco (quad strain) both are moving toward returning, but it will be a while. When Franco went on the injured list May 31, the Rays said they hoped he would be back in two weeks. Cash said Franco continues to receive treatment and is progressing toward strengthening exercises but will need more time. “I don’t feel like he’ll be back in one (more) week,” Cash said. Lowe was reevaluated as planned after three weeks of no baseball activity and given permission to start doing some rotational exercises. He hopes to pick up a bat for the first time Friday and hit off a tee. Cash said “it’s going to take a couple weeks” for Lowe to progress through stages of hitting, running and fielding drills to be ready, and he will need to play in some rehab games after that. Starter Luis Patino (oblique) is headed to Durham to start a weeks-long rehab assignment. Miscellany Luke Bard, who signed a minor-league deal during spring training, was called up from Triple-A to join the bullpen. Bard, the younger brother of Rockies reliever Daniel Bard, spent parts of 2018-20 with the Angels, then missed all of 2021 undergoing right hip resurfacing surgery. ... Kevin Kiermaier was in the cleanup spot Tuesday, the second such assignment of his career. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.