NEW YORK — Offenses have changed in the Stanley Cup playoffs this season. The Lightning have not. While scoring is up significantly in the postseason, Tampa Bay is going into tonight’s Eastern Conference final opener against New York planning to play with the same defense-first mentality that worked so well the past two years. Even though the Lightning are one of four teams still standing in the playoffs, their scoring output is nowhere near the numbers being put up by Colorado and Edmonton. Tampa Bay is averaging 3.27 goals per game, which is barely league average this postseason. Even the Rangers are scoring more. Yet no one is complaining. No one is worried. The Lightning have excelled on defense in the past half-dozen games, and that’s all that matters in their locker room. “You never know how the games are going to go, but our philosophy is we play defense first and it builds from there,” said forward Corey Perry. “We play defense, we try to contain our tone, and then we wait for our chances. We’re not a track meet team. We’re not up and down, all over the place. “We play with structure, and we have to have that.” The Lightning have already won three games while scoring two goals or less in this postseason. Last year, they won six games with two goals or fewer. For comparison’s sake, no other team has won more than two low-scoring games in the past two seasons combined. Colorado and Edmonton scored five goals in the first period of their series opener on Tuesday night, which may be more than New York and Tampa Bay score in all 60 minutes of Game 1 tonight. Goaltenders Andrei Vasilevskiy and Igor Shesterkin are among the best in the NHL and both teams play with a defensive-heavy philosophy, but the Lightning are not bracing for any particular style. They’ll do what they normally do without worrying too much about New York’s philosophy. “If we’re playing our game, the way we know how to play, you typically don’t have to worry too much about what they do,” said forward Alex Killorn. “You (only) start worrying about what they do when you’re not playing that well.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.