Universal voting? It makes sense for a full and healthy democracy and Mandatory voting is a bad, unconstitutional idea | June 20 Monday’s paper had an article about mandatory voting and a letter about abolishing the Electoral College. I submit that our election problems would not be solved by either. A high number of voters are registered independent. In 28 states, including Florida, this means they cannot vote in the primaries. All too often these days the Republican and the Democratic candidates selected by the party members are far right and far left. This leaves more centrist voters the choice between the lesser of two evils. If we really want a working democracy, we need open primaries or a system of rank-order voting. And we need to end gerrymandering. Karla Smith, Tampa Gas tax holidays Biden says decision on gas tax holiday may come this week | June 23 To suspend the gas tax or not to suspend the gas tax, that is the question. Will it really help consumers, or will it fatten the petroleum industry’s bottom line? Brian Walkowiak, St. Petersburg Really truly shocking! Issues will confront new schools chief from the start | June 19 How shocking! Our new superintendent of schools in Pinellas County attends a community meeting on educational equity. Equity, defined by Merriam-Webster, is “freedom from bias or favoritism,” a dangerous concept. It could mean that our little white children should be treated no differently from our little Black or brown children. We can’t have that! To make matters worse, this meeting is sponsored by that subversive organization, the NAACP, and is being held in that evil church that welcomes everyone, where that wicked pastor teaches that in God’s sight all are created equal, and God’s love is for everyone. The nerve! Why, he even encourages his parishioners to care about and help the needy in our community regardless of their religion, race, ethnic background or sexual orientation, convincing them this is what Jesus meant by his story of the good Samaritan. Well, Jesus was a rabble rouser, accused of eating with tax collectors and sinners. No wonder they crucified him. Furthermore, I imagine these people would even have us believe that the final words of our pledge to the flag, “liberty and justice for all,” means everyone, not just white Christian nationalists. I mean, what is liberty and justice for everyone but equity (gasp!). Elenora Sabin, St. Petersburg