If men gave birth ... May letter of the month Editor’s note: The May letter of the month reacted to the leaked draft opinion indicating that the Supreme Court is likely to overturn Roe v. Wade. What if men had the babies? Ever think about that? There would most likely be an abortion clinic on every street corner with the government covering the costs and any charges. As a woman, it is my body — and my accidentally fertilized egg — so in all fairness what I do about it is my private business. A fertilized egg is not a baby. Since we are telling others what to do with their bodies, let’s pass a law that every man who is not paying his child support must be sterilized. Dot Clark, Apollo Beach Imagine if that were your child The Uvalde police scandal | Column, June 6 I am outraged. We can’t let this be yesterday’s news. Imagine 11-year-old Miah Cerrillo covering herself with blood and pretending to be dead. Take a minute and imagine if that were your child. I can’t because it’s never supposed to happen. Imagine teacher Arnulfo Reyes witnessing 11 of his students from his classroom murdered. I can’t. Imagine playing dead and waiting 77 minutes for help. I can’t. Those children were not Republicans or Democrats; they were beautiful innocents that had dreams and hopes like all children are meant to have. They were watching the movie “Lilo and Stitch” when the unimaginable occurred. Every citizen and politician across the United States needs to imagine if that were your child. The time for change is long past due. Sadly, daily gun violence has become as American as apple pie. Neil J. Armstrong, Parrish We weren’t listening Have we become too reliant on deferring to experts | Perspective, June 5 I read with interest Dr. Cory Franklin’s piece on becoming too reliant on experts, and I have a different take on our response to the pandemic. So far almost 1.1 million Americans have died. Many more experienced the loss of a family member while thousands are currently suffering from the long-term effects of this disease. Currently according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention nearly 83% of the eligible population received the first vaccine; roughly 71% of them are fully vaccinated and less than half of them received the recommended booster shot. With hospitalizations clearly on a significant incline, the CDC cautions us to wear masks in crowded indoor venues. Most of us are paying little or no attention to this recommendation. Our dismal COVID response in relation to most developed nations in no way reflects over reliance on the advice of acknowledged experts. We are in this mess in large measure because of our collective unwillingness to trust and follow those who have spent a lifetime studying infectious diseases. John Morse, Tampa Which do you want? Courting theocracy | Perspective, June 5 This excellent column by Lawrence Goldstone should serve as a guide in establishing the core issue in the upcoming elections. Do Americans want an autocratic government premised on the edicts of a religion and/or a person or one premised on the consent of the governed, the U.S. Constitution? The question is not frivolous especially considering events of the past couple of decades. The vote on this proposition could well determine the solutions to the many issues facing our country and the future of our democracy. Sam A. Giunta, Tampa Thank you, professor What good are cryptocurrencies anyway? | Column, June 4 I’ve always look forward to retired professor Murad Antia’s periodic columns. His review of cryptocurrencies was especially insightful. I’m not a neophyte in either computer science or finance, and I was lured by the excitement of this new technology. However, in my heart of hearts, I’ve always felt there was something fishy about crypto. My research only generated confusion as I tried to navigate through all the jibber-jabber. Now I know my gut instinct was on track, cryptos are dicey and could lead one into a quagmire of deceit and loss. Professor Antia provided the expert level conformation I was looking for. Jon Crawfurd, Gulfport