Here is the full text message, reported by NFL Network’s Mike Garafolo, that Bruce Arians issued to his players Wednesday evening telling them that he would be stepping down as Bucs head coach. “Men, “First, I want to apologize that I’m having to send this note out in a mass text, but there really isn’t another option this time of the year. “I wanted to let you all know, before it becomes news in a few minutes, that I have made the decision to transition from coaching into a role in the front office helping Jason (Licht) and his staff. Todd (Bowles) is going to be named the new coach and I know he is going to do a great job continuing to build upon the success we have experienced together these past few seasons. “I wanted to take a minute to thank all of you for your hard work and dedication to this team. It has been a hell of a ride coaching you guys these past three seasons. Winning the Super Bowl a couple seasons back was the last real thing I had hoped to accomplish as a head coach. That was a special season, and any of you that were here for that know just how much sacrifice and self-discipline it took to accomplish that goal. We couldn’t have had this great success without each of you sacrificing and buying in to what we were trying to do here. “With Tom (Brady) coming back, the guys we’ve been able to retain, and the new free agents we’ve added, I know that this team is built for continued success. That’s why I know that now is the time. I want Todd and the rest of your coaches to have every chance to succeed — and I know they will. “Now, before you start thinking this is goodbye, it isn’t. I’ll still be around the offices and available to cuss you out when you screw things up on the practice field. I look forward to connecting with many of you in person when the offseason program starts to heat up. “BA” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.