ST. PETERSBURG — It was 11:50 a.m. on a recent Thursday, 10 minutes ahead of schedule, and already a line of people, two dozen deep, waited outside the Enoch Davis Center. They wanted to get on a bus — not the PSTA 14, which stops every half hour in front of the building on 18th Avenue S, but the one sitting in the parking lot, with bright photographs of fresh produce splashed across its side. Every few minutes, another person in line, clutching a tote or reusable grocery bag, was waved aboard. Inside it smelled earthy, of unshucked corn and whole onions, and had a slight chill, from the freezers propped open toward the back. The screen on the front of the bus, which once proclaimed its destination, read “Reach St. Pete” — the name and task of the nonprofit that had turned this decommissioned machine into a free grocery on wheels. The bus runs two Thursdays a month, with stops at five locations throughout Pinellas County. It began its second life at the end of February. Alexia Morrison founded Reach St. Pete in 2016. She said she toyed with the idea of a mobile pantry for a while, based on feedback she’d gotten from clients of the nonprofit, which focuses on helping low-income and homeless communities. “We had been getting a lot of applications for food,” she said, “and a common theme started to be, ‘We don’t have transportation to get to you guys, is there a way to get food to us, or is there a closer location to me?’” Morrison said many of the people the nonprofit serves live in food “deserts,” communities with no nearby fresh grocer, where residents without reliable transportation depend on gas stations, dollar stores and fast-food restaurants for their food. She was thinking about how to bring food into those areas when a friend at the Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority asked if she had any interest in a decommissioned bus set to be scrapped for parts. The nonprofit contracted with a construction company that builds tiny houses to give the bus the feeling of a modern grocery store, with gray faux-wood floors and plank-and-metal gondola shelves. Morrison said she wanted to make clients feel like “they were having a shopping experience like they would at Publix.” Morrison extolls more traditional food pantries, some of which donate food for the bus, but she also knew from her experience of homelessness as a teenager that not everyone feels comfortable or dignified in those spaces. She said she hopes the bus gives people a feeling of normalcy and agency. That’s been reflected in feedback so far from clients, she said, who have also frequently noted that food from the bus replaced meals they would have bought at convenience stores or fast food restaurants. On Thursday, the bus’s 45-minute scheduled stop was almost over, and the line had dwindled to a trickle of people. Latorra Randle, the nonprofit’s director of community relations, peered into a refrigerator and wondered if they’d have time to pick up more milk before the next stop. “How are we doing on numbers?” she called to the front. So far, across all five stops, the bus has served an average of 180 families in a day. An answer came from the driver’s seat: Fifty people had already come through. There was, finally, no more line. A woman appeared at the rear door and announced that she’d forgotten to grab eggs; a man in a Dodgers jersey surveyed a crate of baguettes. The bus stayed until the last one had stepped off, their bags heavy.