The U.S. Department of Labor is demanding CareerSource Pinellas and CareerSource Tampa Bay repay $4.3 million in taxpayer money that was misspent under the direction of the fired CEO of both organizations, Edward Peachey. It remains unclear who will cover that bill, or how, but some of the expense could be paid using public dollars. Either the two publicly funded CareerSource offices or the taxpayers of Pinellas and Hillsborough counties will be on the hook. CareerSource centers use federal money to train workers and help them find jobs. Labor Department officials found that CareerSource Pinellas and CareerSource Tampa Bay (which operates in Hillsborough) falsified records and logged phony hiring reports, according to a letter sent March 11 to Dane Eagle, executive director of the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity. The Labor Department’s review followed a 2018 Tampa Bay Times investigation that revealed the job placement centers took credit for finding work for people who never sought CareerSource’s help. Staffers under Peachey earned bonuses for posting high placement numbers. The agencies also handed out millions of dollars in gift cards without following up on how the money was spent, including by people who did not use CareerSource to find jobs. Florida’s workforce system includes a network of 22 other offices across the state. Peachey’s centers shone in performance rankings, bolstered by inflated hiring reports. His pay rose in turn: In 2016, the Times reported, he earned more than $291,000. The boards of both agencies fired him two years later. Now the public — or the overhauled agencies — could get stuck paying for what the Department of Labor described as Peachey’s poor oversight and mismanagement of money. A Labor Department grant officer wrote to the state that the “improper governance” was intentional. “The reviewers concluded that these structures were strategically developed to avoid implementing internal controls, leading to improprieties, conflicts of interest, undue influence and other program risks,” the letter said. The Labor Department said it will waive interest if the debt is paid within 30 days. The money cannot come from federal funds, which account for much of the job training agencies’ budgets. CareerSource Pinellas and CareerSource Tampa Bay once operated as sister centers under Peachey but severed ties after he was fired. The Times called multiple phone numbers for Peachey on Wednesday; one was out of service and a voicemail left on the other line was not returned. A Florida Department of Economic Opportunity spokesperson said the counties must return the money to the Department of Labor. But officials in both Pinellas and Hillsborough are hopeful the job centers can handle the expense on their own. CareerSource Tampa Bay spokesperson Doug Tobin said the agency is working with its insurance carrier “to see if (it) can mitigate the cost to the taxpayers.” John Flanagan, president and CEO of CareerSource Tampa Bay, sent a letter to Hillsborough County saying if the job placement center does not get enough from its insurance claim, the county commission could be responsible for outstanding costs. He said his agency’s portion of the bill is just under $2.5 million. “I am confident we will put this behind us and continue to provide employment services to job seekers and businesses in Hillsborough County,” Flanagan said in a statement. Hillsborough County Commission chairperson Kimberly Overman said she hopes the insurance company will pay quickly, so elected leaders avoid spending county money on CareerSource Tampa Bay’s behalf. Across the bay, CareerSource Pinellas’ portion of the debt is about $1.9 million. In a Wednesday email to county commissioners, assistant county administrator Kevin Knutson said CareerSource Pinellas plans to use reserves from the sale of a science center building, which Peachey had once pushed the agency to acquire without full board approval. “According to Steve Meier, Interim CEO, payment will be made promptly and this will settle all of the open issues with DOL,” Knutson wrote to the commission. County Administrator Barry Burton said those reserves are “more than enough in non-federal money to be able to pay this back.” The federal reviewers examined records including financial reports, leases, budgets, payroll sheets and minutes from CareerSource Tampa Bay and CareerSource Pinellas board meetings, according to a report of their findings. The debt stemming from Peachey’s tenure could have soared higher. The Department of Labor previously questioned more than $17 million in spending at the agencies.