I’m a physician in Tampa, but I am also the son of a World War II veteran and a concerned American watching 30 years of post-Cold War initiatives unravel in Russia’s war on Ukraine. It is unimaginable that in 2022 we are seeing such wanton cruelty and atavistic behavior. History, it would appear, repeats itself yet again, allowing us to glance again at the barbarous side of humanity. The chronological record of homo sapiens is littered with the tragic machinations of tyrants, autocrats and bullies seeking to exploit the perceived vulnerability of neighbors for political, financial and geographical gain. Thus, our hearts go out to the Ukrainian people who must now resist an unprovoked invasion by Russian forces led by a sinister autocrat surrounded by thuggish cronies. The Spanish poet and philosopher George Santayana said, “Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it.” And because we failed to heed the lessons of the 1930s we now are reliving through the anguish of Ukrainians what was felt by the Czechs, Poles and all those parts of Europe invaded by Hitler and his murderous Nazi thugs, and by the Chinese, Koreans and South Asians subject to the horrors of invading militarism during World War II. We were also woefully unprepared for those struggles. Americans then as now were attempting to regain their footing in the wake of an economic calamity; Americans then as now were wrestling with ideas of both democracy and authoritarianism; free market capitalism and socialism; appeasement and re-armament; isolationism and engagement. Then as now, foreign dictators sought to exploit what they misperceived as intrinsic weakness of democracies, but what was in fact the rigorous debate of an open society and a free people. Pre-World War II, the miscalculations of these dictators are what unified America and its allies and awoke in us a dormant martial vigor, which rose to crush them. Our current internal challenges in America, which just a few weeks ago seemed so important, pale by comparison to those being endured by the brave people of Ukraine who are facing sophisticated weaponry, cyber-attacks and the unparalleled treachery of a superpower, albeit a failed and fading one. The actions of Vladimir Putin and his willing accomplices make it clear that as a free people, we can never again afford to be so introspective, self-centered and greedy as to miss the opportunity to resist forces which are antithetical to free civilizations. We have underestimated and appeased the sitting governments in Moscow and Beijing, imagining that they shared our values. They most assuredly do not. Ukraine should serve as a powerful stimulus to renew the same spirit that allowed us to resist and defeat the failed ideas espoused by the Axis powers and then to endure and ultimately triumph in the long twilight struggle of the Cold War. A free people must always be vigilant. And while we rediscover our own martial spirit, let us do all we can to support the Ukrainian people. Dr. Charles J. Lockwood is the senior vice president of USF Health, and the dean of the Morsani College of Medicine. These views are his own and don’t necessarily reflect those of the institution.