RALEIGH, N.C. — The previous two seasons, the Lightning managed to make deals at the deadline while avoiding losing pieces to their active roster, using draft picks as their primary trade chips. With no salary-cap space or roster flexibility this season, any moves had to involve subtracting players in order to add others. Rookie forwards Boris Katchouk and Taylor Raddysh had to be a part of the package for forward Brandon Hagel in order to create cap space. Dealing forward Mathieu Joseph to the Senators for forward Nick Paul, however, was different. It was the first time the Lightning traded away a player who helped them win back-to-back Stanley Cup championships. Joseph was a part of the team’s young core, someone whose responsibility increased — he played the penalty kill regularly this season for the first time as a pro — as he learned to use his speed most effectively. His exuberance and energy stood out on a team full of business-like veterans. “It’s definitely harder,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said Monday. “Saying goodbye to a draft pick, it’s pretty easy. But saying bye to the players that you’ve been a big part of us winning and the fabric of our organization, those are tough, especially the guys who’ve won a couple of Cups with us. “But you have to look at it, too, the opportunity for those players to go somewhere else and have success ... you’re cheering for them. So it’s just kind of a bittersweet feeling.” Joseph Tuesday on social media posted a goodbye message to the Lightning and their fans, while looking forward to new new beginning in Ottawa. “Thank you, Tampa,” Joseph wrote. “I feel extremely fortunate to have called Tampa home for the past (four) seasons. First and foremost, I want to thank the (Lightning) for giving me a chance to realize my dream of playing in the NHL. To the coaching staff, thank you for believing in me and pushing me to become a better player every day. Thanks to the unbelievable training staff for helping me be ready each and every game. “To Bolts fans, thank you for your support over the last couple years. I absolutely loved playing in front of you guys. You welcomed me with open arms and I can’t express how much it meant to me. And to the boys, thank you for all the memories. Couldn’t ask for a better group of guys to grow with these last couple years. Friendships that will last forever. Will miss you champs.” A big reason Joseph became a trade chip was because the Lightning believed it would be nearly impossible to afford him after this season. He was likely to become a casualty of the team’s salary-cap constraints. Even though Joseph still would be under team control as a restricted free agent, his performance this season would have netted him a significant raise. His cap hit this season was just $737,500, according to CapFriendly. With little cap space to work with this coming offseason, an arbitration case would have put the Lightning in a bad spot with the cap, so they were unlikely to even make Joseph a qualifying offer. After coming to that conclusion, they had to treat him as an unrestricted free agent. So, dealing for another UFA like Paul while giving away some skill for some needed physicality made sense. “It’s not the most pleasant part of my job,” Lightning general manager Julien BriseBois said of having to call Joseph Sunday to tell him he had been traded. “Obviously, you develop relationships with these players, especially a player like Mathieu. We really liked Mathieu, and he’s contributed to our last two Stanley Cups. He’s contributed to the success that we’ve had thus far this season.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.