TAMPA — To help promote the area as a tourist destination, Hillsborough County is getting into the reality television business. The Hillsborough County Commission on Wednesday approved an $85,000 production incentive for My Abuela, which is set to begin filming later this month. According to the incentive application, the reality show is a dating game “layered with culture, age and comedy” in which an “Abuela” (Spanish for grandmother) weighs in on her grandchild’s dating life. Hillsborough film commissioner Tyler Martinolich said the show is “also a commercial marketing us as a destination.” Hillsborough’s incentive program provides productions up to 10 percent back on what is spent locally. To receive its incentive, this show must spend $850,000 in the county. But My Abuela producers also had to work with the county to choose where the couples would go on dates. The county picked locales they want to market to tourists. “It is an interesting, innovative marketing tool,” Martinolich said. “It is designed from the ground up to highlight Tampa’s waterfront, its attractions, restaurants. Any place that tourists might want to interact with will be featured in some way, shape or form in this show because what people see on television or at the movies impacts where they want to visit.” According to a 2013 Visit Florida survey, 22 percent of domestic tourists in Florida said something they saw on film or television contributed to their decision to visit the state. The concept of a county using a television production as a marketing tool was first employed locally in St. Petersburg via the streaming series Life’s Rewards, which follows the exploits of a high-profile wealth manager’s privileged son who loses everything and is forced to live off the only two assets he has left — his charisma and a cache of hotel points that allow him to stay for six months at the Don CeSar on St. Pete Beach. The eight-episode season’s $550,000 budget was jointly funded by Visit St. Petersburg/Clearwater and Visit Florida. Also produced by Miles Partnership, the series worked with Pinellas tourism officials to choose featured locations and add dialogue to further sell each. Visit Florida did not respond to a Tampa Bay Times inquiry asking if they are also funding My Abuela. Visit Florida and Miles Partnership approached Hillsborough with the reality show opportunity “because of our Latin culture,” Martinolich said. “This could also have worked anywhere in South Florida, but we got it. We think we have crafted something that is unique to Tampa that’s going to tell a uniquely Tampa story that engages with a Latin audience.” The show does not yet have a distribution platform. Online casting calls for My Abeula sought out locals with Latin grandmothers who are 65 or older and have a “habit of telling everybody how things should be done.” According to the production’s incentive application, My Abuela will spend $850,000 locally over 16 days of filming via 136 hotel room nights, over 37 crew hires, food and equipment. “This checked every possible box as far as why we want to have an incentive,” Martinolich said. “We want to promote local filming and engage with local filmmakers, but it’s also to market the area. This is the perfect fit.”