PALM BEACH — Fate set them roughly 10 feet apart Tuesday, at separate tables inside an elegant ballroom of The Breakers oceanside resort. Former colleagues Sean McVay and Kevin O’Connell had joined most of the other NFC head coaches for a brief morning media session at the NFL meetings. Only six weeks before, the pair was reveling in a Super Bowl triumph — McVay as Rams coach, O’Connell as offensive coordinator. Three days after that 23-20 victory over the Bengals, O’Connell was hired as Vikings coach, setting up Tuesday morning’s scene. Across the room, elder statesmen Pete Carroll (Seahawks) and Ron Rivera (Commanders) held court at their own tables with huddles of reporters. In another nook, Falcons coach Arthur Smith and Panthers counterpart Matt Rhule did the same. (Bucs coach Bruce Arians had been forced to exit the day before due to a personal matter.) And just inside the doorway, the conference’s two youngest coaches — both 36 — engaged their own small audiences, a visual testament to how improbably one play can alter the trajectory of careers. Would O’Connell have even been inside this room on this morning had the Bucs not opted to go Cover-Zero in the waning moments of the division playoff game against the Rams? Similarly, would McVay be relishing life as the NFL’s resident wunderkind? Hard to say. But the reality is, the Bucs opted for an all-out blitz at the season’s most critical juncture, allowing Matthew Stafford to find Cooper Kupp isolated in an empty secondary for the decisive play of the Ram’s 30-27 triumph at Raymond James Stadium. “I think the most impressive part of that play was (Bucs defensive lineman Ndamukong) Suh basically wins immediately,” McVay recalled Tuesday. “He’s free right up the middle, so (Stafford) is able to make that throw off drift. (Cornerback Sean) Murphy-Bunting’s coming (in a blitz) off the slot, but those guys are special players. They make you a lot better coach when you’re working with guys like that.” On Tuesday, both coaches happily indulged a request to reflect on what remains a festering blister in Bucs lore. In the game’s immediate wake, Bucs players spoke of getting their signals crossed on the decisive play, and Arians indicated he wished he could’ve played the season’s last 40 seconds differently. By contrast, McVay and O’Connell spoke at length about a quarterback and receiver supremely preparing for such a moment which, in this case, resulted in Stafford connecting with Kupp for a 44-yard completion, setting up former Buc Matt Gay’s winning 30-yard field goal as time expired. “For our guys, it’s one thing for Cooper to get open in that moment, it’s one thing for Matthew to find him with the pressure that was kind of in his face,” O’Connell said. “But we had talked a lot about those moments.” Perhaps not talked about sufficiently was the pair’s 20-yard hookup on the previous play. After Stafford was sacked by Suh and Jason Pierre-Paul for a 1-yard loss on first down, Kupp lined up in the left slot on a trips formation the following play. When the ball was snapped, Murphy-Bunting got his hands briefly on Kupp as the eventual NFL Offensive Player of the Year ran at a slight angle toward the middle of the field before tripping on the back of Kupp’s left leg. As a result, Kupp was left isolated for a 20-yard catch, then scurried out of bounds to stop the clock with 28 seconds to go. “That was the biggest play, in my opinion,” Arians said the day after. O’Connell seemed to concur. “(It) allowed us the opportunity to kind of mimic like we were getting in the huddle but then go to the ball no-huddle to try to get the defense kind of caught in between calls, caught in between running an all-out pressure,” he said. “So when they did that, Cooper was able to take the middle of the field. Matthew was aware of it, and then obviously you see Cooper screaming down the field.” It’s a scene any self-respecting Bucs fan never will suppress. One that just might have sent two coaching careers into a rarefied stratosphere. McVay became the youngest coach to win a Super Bowl. O’Connell became the second-youngest head coach in Vikings history. “I think it was a great play by those two,” McVay said. “It’s on those guys to pitch and catch,” O’Connell added. “And at that moment, with the stakes never having been greater for us as far as our season goes, for those guys to effortlessly and flawlessly complete that pass, I give those guys a ton of credit.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.