A liberal for gun rights The Second Amendment | Letter, March 1 Even though I’m a liberal Democrat, I, too, support the Second Amendment. I support citizens’ rights to have guns to protect their families, homes, fields, herds and neighbors. I support safe hunting (and I like deer meat). I support having safe places for target practice (and my mother learned how to use a pistol and participated in a shooting matches in her 50s). However, I have concerns about automatic and military-style weapons being used against other people, especially against those who protect peace in our communities. I have concerns about children dying because parents did not safeguard their weapons. Yet, I support many of this letter writer’s views. Does the writer share some of my concerns? I think that gun rights are not an “all or nothing” proposition, and I believe we have a lot of common ground between us. I think peace and safety thrive when we work together, so I hope we will continue these “cross-the-aisles” conversations. Mardie J. Chapman, St. Petersburg Just clueless Make populism pop | Column, March 1 Hedge fund founder Andy Kessler is hardly like the rest of us. He is typical of wealthy, arrogant white guys who have a money shield to protect them from the results of their foolish ways. If this article was supposed to be humorous or irreverent, it was neither. Clueless is as clueless spouts. Brian Walkowiak, St. Petersburg Family has changed Florida’s ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bill will harm our family and community | March 1 As the grandfather of some very inquisitive children, I know that the mention of two daddies wouldn’t even raise an eyebrow in the kindergarten class of today. Look around guys, your idea of the nuclear family of the 1960s is an anomaly. Sadly in today’s world, many children are lucky to have a guardian, let alone two daddies. Mark H. Campbell, St. Petersburg I’d pay more at pump Civilians shelled | March 1 To help Ukraine, I am willing to pay higher prices for gas. Let’s all think of other personal sacrifices we could make. Karen Weiss, Palm Harbor Good, for once Where Putin Goes From Here | Column, Feb. 28 This essay might be the first one from Wall Street Journal columnist Peggy Noonan worth finishing in well over a decade. I don’t expect another any time soon, but this one was worthwhile. Steve Douglas, St. Petersburg