TAMPA — USF’s on-campus football stadium took a step forward Tuesday when the board of trustees signaled approval for its recommended site near the team’s current practice fields. No vote was taken, and nothing has been finalized. But the board did not object to the site, proposed by athletic director Michael Kelly and USF Foundation CEO Jay Stroman. The site (recommended ahead of four others) would put the Bulls’ stadium atop the fields where the original team practiced. Kelly said it would also help build one of the finest athletic districts in the country, with major sports facilities all in close proximity to each other. “I liked the historical fit to the birth of our program, having been there 20-some odd years ago,” Kelly said after the meeting, “and I absolutely love what it’ll do to our athletic district to have such a concise footprint, to have every aspect of your athletic department within a couple hundred yards of each other like that is unusual, and I think will set us in great position for the future.” Financial details for the stadium have not yet been discussed, though the Bulls did announce a $5 million donation from the Morsani family. More details and a funding plan are expected to be announced at the board’s June meeting. Once the financial plans are set, the Bulls can work on designing a specific structure that fits that cost. One intriguing possibility for the proposed site includes building an operations center in or next to the stadium. That way, football players could use the facility and go north into the stadium for a game or south into the under-construction indoor practice facility for practice or workouts. Kelly and Stroman have suggested debuting the stadium for the 2027 season opener against Miami. But board of trustees chair Will Weatherford is pushing for a more aggressive timeline to have it ready for 2026. “We can do this,” Weatherford said. “It’s right there for us.” This story will be updated. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.