Hillsborough officials plan to close the county’s last free, public COVID-19 testing and vaccination site on Wednesday. The site at the West Tampa Community Resource Center at 2103 N Rome Ave. will be shuttered when it closes its doors at 5 p.m. Wednesday, according to the county. Officials cite several factors in closing the location: Falling infection numbers; a county positivity rate that dropped to 2.9 percent last week; and a lack of demand for COVID-19 tests and vaccination shots. Those seeking to get tested or vaccinated after Wednesday can go to their local pharmacies, the county said. Visit HCFLGov.net/COVID19 or Vaccines.gov for more information. Pinellas County still has five testing sites operating, according to its COVID-19 website. Check covid19.pinellascounty.org/testing for more information. Hillsborough officials say the state of local emergency order that had been declared on March 12, 2020, will expire Thursday. Officials say they’ll monitor the county’s COVID-19 cases and reopen testing and vaccination sites if they are needed. Last week the county updated its masking guidelines and now encourages — but no longer requires — masks to be worn inside county facilities, including libraries and recreation centers. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s mask guide lists Hillsborough County and the rest of Tampa Bay as areas of “medium” risk, which means those at risk of severe illness due to COVID-19 should consider wearing a mask indoors or consulting their doctor. Those living in “medium” risk areas should also make sure their vaccinations are up-to-date and get tested if they experience symptoms. • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for eligible recipients are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your ZIP code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • More coronavirus coverage OMICRON VARIANT: Omicron changed what we know about COVID. Here’s the latest on how the infectious COVID-19 variant affects masks, vaccines, boosters and quarantining. KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? Here’s the answers to your questions. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.