Times Correspondent Pace Center for Girls, where counselors and teachers work with at-risk girls to get them on the path to success in adulthood, has a network of 21 centers throughout Florida. Chantell Miles, who has been with the organization for 10 years, started at the Jacksonville Pace Center and returned to Jacksonville earlier this month as executive director after serving as executive director of the Pinellas Pace center for 2 ½ years. “I just fell in love with the mission of Pace,’’ she said. Miles, 48, who is helping supervise the Pinellas Pace center until a new director is hired, is excited about a $120,000 grant from the Schoen Foundation for the Pinellas Center and $50,000 for the Pace Center in Hillsborough County. Schoen has made other contributions in the past. She talked with the Tampa Bay Times about the work of Pace. What is the purpose of Pace, and how did it begin? Pace provides girls and young women an opportunity for a better future through education, counseling, training and advocacy. It was started 37 years ago, in 1985, in Jacksonville, Florida. Our founder, Vicki Burke, was working in the juvenile justice system and she saw an increase in girls being arrested. … Then, of course, the system wasn’t really set up to address the needs of girls. So, she set out with 10 girls in a church basement in Jacksonville to provide those services for girls. How do you determine which girls qualify for Pace? Because of primary funding from the Department of Juvenile Justice, they have requirements for girls. All the girls in the program have a minimum of three risk factors that make them eligible. They must have one risk factor in three of five domains. The domains that we look at are academic underachievement, family instability, victimization, mental or physical health concerns and maladaptive behaviors. … Say a girl comes to us and she has risk factors, and they are all in family instability. We’ll work to identify resources in the community that they could use, but to be eligible for Pace we really have to look at those three domains. We go through an extensive intake process. Because Pace is a voluntary program, every girl in the program should want to be there. Because we are looking at behavior modification. I­­­n order for her to really change those behaviors that have presented a potential risk she has to buy into the program and really want to be there. Do the girls attend school at Pace? The girls come to us for academics year-round.­­­ … They come to us for their core classes – reading, math, science, social studies, language arts and then we also have a unique class that every girl in all 21 pace centers takes, and it’s called spirited girls. It’s a life skills class. I always say it’s the bridge between our social services and academics. So it isn’t elective. The girls get a credit for the class. It looks at building life skills for the girls. We rely heavily on community partners who also help us in that class. In Pinellas County, we have an amazing partnership with Johns Hopkins All Children’s (Hospital). We may have physicians talk to the girls about medical concerns. We have a chef that will come and teach them about making healthy meals with a limited budget. We have a partnership with Wells Fargo. They come and talk to the girls about financial planning and money management. Experian will come out and talk to them about credit. So, different community partners in addition to our spirited girls teacher really look at what are the life skills that the girls need when they leave Pace to continue in their development. It also focuses a lot on their career path. … Every girl in our program takes a career assessment when she comes into the program. We look at what are those areas that interest the girls and make sure that we just provide the opportunities to explore whatever those interests are. The Pace website states that a high percentage of girls in the program graduate from high school. What is it that works? I think it’s really meeting the girls where they are and having individualized plans for each girl. We realize that every girl that comes into the program, they don’t have the same needs, so identifying the girls’ needs and where she needs motivation, I think is key. Also, because we are a smaller setting. We never exceed a 1-to-14 ratio in our classes. The girls can get that one-on-one attention that they need from the teachers. … Just tailoring the instruction to meet the needs of the girls, I think, is very important… (and) having that encouragement from their counselors and the rest of the staff. Part of what we wrote in the Schoen grant was to have incentives for the girls. We have a very robust awards ceremony that we have quarterly… where we acknowledge the girls for making academic gains as well as social services gains. We spend money on trophies and awards, we invite their parents to come. We invite our board members and other community members to really come and celebrate the girls for their achievements. I mentioned that one of our foundational pillars is that we are strength-based. … I think those recognitions along with the one-on-one attention that they get and the counseling all work hand in hand to help them be successful. Do you have some proud success cases? I have a lot of those. I think of one of our graduating seniors this year. Her name is Ella. Ella came to us; she was very angry because... of life circumstances. So, she was lashing out quite a bit. When she first started the program, she was difficult for staff to reach. But because we are relational, the staff, we just continued to build those strong relationships with her, strong bonds with her. If she had a staff member that she had a connection with that person would share with other staff members, this is what I did to help break down the walls. She works closely with her counselor to address the sources of her anger issues. And so now she’s at a place where she’s graduating this year. She’s completed most of her course work and she and her family are going on a graduation trip to Greece. … She is planning to go on to (St. Petersburg College). She’s already done a tour of the campus, and I think ultimately, she would like to be a psychologist. For more information, go to pacecenter.org.