CHICAGO — The Lightning took one important lesson out of their four-goal loss to the Penguins last week: their defensemen need to be more active offensively. Defensemen totaled just five shots on goal in the game. It wasn’t the reason Tampa Bay lost, and when a team falls behind early as the Lightning often have lately, it’s natural for the defense to play on its heels. But this team is built on its defensemen pushing forward and playing a role in the offense. Since that game, Lightning defensemen have accounted for five of the team’s nine goals and 12 points in wins over the Red Wings and Blackhawks. Victor Hedman and Mikhail Sergachev have scored two goals apiece. “You need it,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “If you’ve watched the parts of our game when we haven’t had success, (the defensemen) are not involved whatsoever. They’re a big part of how we do things, especially with some of the guys we have back there. “We need them for that, so you can tell a little bit of the tale of how our game’s going with how involved our D are. It doesn’t mean to have to get a point every night, but usually they’re around it or a lot of their shot volume is leading to goals for us,” Cooper said. “So it’s good. I’m glad to see those guys get rewarded.” The Lightning (37-12-6) got four goals from defensemen in Sunday’s 6-3 win over the Blackhawks, and they played a pivotal role in helping Tampa Bay recover from another slow start. Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy kept the Lightning in the game, making several big saves in a first period in which the team allowed numerous odd-man rushes. Taylor Raddysh’s game-tying goal just over a minute into the second period was the result of a Cal Foote shot attempt. Though Foote’s wrister from above the right circle was blocked, the puck deflected to Raddysh, who scored on a backhand shot through traffic. After Hedman scored the first of his two goals on a hard wrister from the high slot at the end of a power play, Foote scored his first goal of the season by jumping into a play. Defenseman Ryan McDonagh put a puck on goal from the right point and Foote, charging from the weak side, one-timed a pass from Anthony Cirelli into an open net. “The coaches want our D active,” Foote said. We always want to be jumping up into play, joining the rush and, even in the offensive zone, just adding to our shot-scramble game. So anytime you can get the back end to add to the offense, it’s pretty nice.” Over the past two games, the Lightning have found that getting more shot volume from the blue line leads to good things offensively. Defensemen totaled 18 shots in the win over Detroit and 13 against Chicago. Eventually, that created open shooting lanes for the Lightning blueliners to help put Sunday’s game away. In the third period, both Hedman and Sergachev scored on wrist shots from the point as part of a 32-second stretch in which Tampa Bay scored on three consecutive shots. Sergachev, who also scored the winning goal Friday against the Red Wings, scored quickly off a Ross Colton faceoff win. “It’s not just, you know, goals and stuff like that,” Hedman said. “It creates second or third opportunities, and that’s when we get in the offensive zone, we find open seams and can make plays. “We try to utilize that as much as we can, but sometimes it’s a grind and sometimes you can’t get those shots through, but when we do we’re a tough team to play in the offensive zone.” The Lightning also could get veteran Zach Bogosian back soon, which would give them their top seven defensemen healthy for the first time this season. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.