TAMPA — He had the arena so pristine one could’ve eaten off the backboards. Rob Higgins left nary a wrinkle in the red carpet in 2009, the last time Tampa hosted the SEC men’s basketball tournament. The only glitch occurred on arrival day. Instead of the league’s customary procession of sleek models pulling up to what was then known as the St. Pete Times Forum, Higgins got a row of pre-owned Pintos. Only one team (LSU) entered the tournament with a top-25 ranking. Kentucky was in the waning stages of coach Billy Gillispie’s dreadful two-season tenure. Florida, winner of national titles in 2006 and 2007, was bound for the NIT. Toss in a tanking economy, and the announced four-day attendance (132,181) was the event’s lowest of the millennium in years not affected by natural disaster or pandemic. “We were in the middle of the recession,” said Higgins, longtime executive director of the Tampa Bay Sports Commission. “There was just a variety of adverse factors at bay.” Thirteen years later, Higgins is waiting for the latest motorcade to pull up to Amalie Arena, site of the 2022 SEC tourney. When it reaches the curb this time around, he’ll encounter hardly a clunker in the group. Six teams are currently projected by ESPN bracketologist Joe Lunardi to make the NCAA Tournament, five of them as No. 5 seeds or better. All six are ranked in the top 25 of Ken Pomeroy’s advanced-metric ratings. Four teams — Auburn (fifth), Kentucky (seventh), Tennessee (13th) and Arkansas (14th) — are in the top 15 of the latest Associated Press rankings. “Any of the top four can win in the Final Four, I think,” veteran ESPN college basketball analyst Mark Wise said. “That’s how good the league is.” The second tier’s not shabby, either. Five other teams have at least 18 regular-season wins and eight conference victories. “Many feel like I do that the SEC, along with the Big 12, are the two best conferences in the nation,” iconic ESPN college hoops analyst Dick Vitale, still undergoing cancer treatments and under voice rest by doctor’s orders, said in a text message Thursday. “The tournament should be filled with intense competition.” Alabama (19-11, 9-8) had won five of six before a home loss Wednesday to Texas A&M. Florida (19-11, 9-8) had won three of four — including a one-point home win against Auburn — entering Saturday’s home showdown against Kentucky. “Obviously the VBDI (Vitale Bald Dome Index) says the Big Four — Auburn, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas — are legit threats,” Vitale texted. “However, a dangerous team can be Alabama.” Additionally, South Carolina (18-11, 9-8) entered the weekend having won five of its last six. LSU (20-10, 8-9) is 17th in the Pomeroy ratings. “And it’s really not by accident,” Higgins said. “The SEC has put a tremendous amount of emphasis over the last five or six years specifically on continuing to strengthen their men’s basketball programs, and I think we’re going to see the results right in front of our very own eyes with the 2022 (SEC tourney).” If the parity manifests itself in buzzer-beaters, bracketology disruption and overall raucousness next week, Florida finally will make good on an SEC tournament in its third attempt. Before 2009, the event had been staged in the state only once, in 1990 at Orlando Arena. Kentucky was on probation and ineligible for SEC and NCAA tournament play, and the Gators won only seven regular-season games following a player exodus after coach Norm Sloan was forced to retire days before the season opener. The four-day event drew a total of 75,982 fans, by far the tournament’s smallest turnout of the modern era (1979-present). By contrast, some upper-level tickets for this year’s tourney (all sessions) were selling for as much as $550 apiece on the secondary market as of Thursday. “Amalie Arena’s going to have a fantastic atmosphere,” Higgins said. “And I think it’s something the student-athletes from all 14 schools are really going to enjoy.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls SEC men’s basketball tournament Where: at Amalie Arena When: Wednesday-Sunday Tickets: Tournament and individual-session tickets available at secticketoffice.com or amaliearena.com. Schedule Wednesday: Games at 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. Thursday/Friday: Games at noon, 2 p.m., 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. Saturday: Semifinals, 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. Sunday: Championship, 1 p.m. TV: Championship, semifinals and Friday’s first two games on ESPN. All others on SEC Network • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.