NEW PORT RICHEY — A nearly 1,000-acre mixed-use development known as New Port Corners got a nod of support by the Pasco County Planning Commission this week, but not without objection from nearby residents. Neighbors argued that the project along Little Road more than five miles north of State Road 54 will further snarl congested roadways and accelerate destruction of the green spaces that drew them to Pasco in the first place. Pasco County commissioners will consider the project next month. New Port Corners, which was established by an ordinance approved in 2010, could include 1,825 single-family homes and 400 townhomes. It would also include up to 700 multi-family units and 475 age-restricted dwellings over 963 acres. Plans further contemplate 350,000 square feet of retail space and 1,050,000 square feet of offices or targeted industry spaces. While nearby residents lined up to voice concerns about vanishing open spaces, already-crowded West Pasco roadways and what they described as a declining quality of life, county planners said the development would be a coordinated community of villages. It would include connections with existing transportation networks, parks, green areas and trails, they said. They also stressed the inclusion of important job-generating sites established in the planned community. The project is designed to mesh with nearby downtown New Port Richey, the planners said. The site is bisected by Little Road and stretches from Plathe Road to the south to just north of Decubellis Road. Jon Russell, who lives in nearby Heritage Lakes, said the mixed-use plan doesn’t fit the location where it is proposed. He suggested it would be more appropriate in an area not already congested with development, possibly by the Suncoast Parkway. Laura Jeske, who lives on Plathe Road, said that most people came to Pasco County to enjoy the green space, but that the county has been too influenced by “mega-developers” who have built their projects, made their profits and moved on, leaving the problems of overcrowding behind. “The county is building and paving over the best parts,” she said. “It’s trashing our future and that of our kids. This has to stop and you can make that happen.” Fifth-generation Pasco resident Charlene Lassiter also urged the Planning Commission to consider the impact of their vote on the property. “This is a very precious piece of land,” she said. Like other speakers, she was concerned about where the wildlife that lives on the land would go, pushing for larger green spaces and more protection of water quality for the Pithlachascotee River. “Slow this train down,” she said. Attorney Clarke Hobby, representing the developer, said that the project will include ample room for trails and green spaces and, while people would love to enjoy open land they don’t own, “times change,” and development must follow the rules of the county’s comprehensive plan for growth. Planning Commission chairperson Charles Grey told concerned speakers that he, too, enjoyed the open spaces of West Pasco before development. But Grey, a lifelong resident and Realtor, said that growth is coming and that land owners have a right to develop their property. He said he wants to see a quality project on the site and he found that in New Port Corners. “This is a big piece of property and I want to make sure it’s done right,” Grey said. “I don’t want to drive by a development like this and be disappointed. I don’t want my friends and neighbors to be disappointed. This is very important to us.” The Planning Commission’s vote to recommend approval to the County Commission was unanimous.