RUSKIN — Two men who were racing on a Ruskin road one night last summer and caused a crash that killed two young women now face vehicular homicide charges, troopers say. Juan C. Gonzalez Jr., 22, of Ruskin and Anthony Gonzalez Jr., 21, of Wimauma were arrested Wednesday on charges of vehicular homicide, unlawful racing and reckless driving, records show. The two men know each other but it’s unclear if they are related, a Florida Highway Patrol spokesperson said. The crash happened about 11:30 p.m. on June 21 on East College Avenue, also known as State Road 674, according to arrest affidavits. Juan Gonzalez was driving a 2020 Chevrolet Sonic and Anthony Gonzalez was behind the wheel of a 2020 Honda Accord when they began to race west on College Avenue at a high rate of speed, the affidavits say. Meantime, a 19-year-old Ruskin woman driving north on Sixth Street SE in a Dodge Charger tried to cross College Avenue from the south. Juan Gonzalez’s Chevy crashed into the passenger side of the Dodge and then the hood of Anthony Gonzalez’s Honda. The Chevy and the Dodge then crashed into a nearby chainlink fence. Both cars caught fire. Anthony Gonzalez turned around and returned to the scene, the arrest affidavits say. The driver of the Dodge died at the scene and a 20-year-old woman riding in the front passenger seat of the Chevy was pronounced dead the next day at Tampa General Hospital. The Highway Patrol did not release the women’s names, citing Marsy’s Law. In July, the Tampa Bay Times reported that a search warrant affidavit in the case identified the Dodge driver as Elizabeth Rodriguez Ortiz and the Chevy passenger as Marisa Isidora Alvarado. Electronic data recovered from the Chevrolet showed that, five seconds before the crash, Juan Gonzalez had been driving at 117 mph. At impact, his recorded speed was 102 mph, according to the search warrant affidavit. Both men were being held in the Hillsborough County jail on Wednesday with bail set at $8,500 each. Alvarado was born in Columbus, Ohio, moved to Florida as a teenager and graduated from Spoto High School in Riverview in 2019, according to her obituary. She worked as a server at the Sunset Grill at Little Harbor in Ruskin and “loved God.” “Moving to a new state might be a problem for most teenagers, but not Marisa,” the obituary says. “With her sense of humor and infectious smile it did not take long for her to find a new network of friends. We are just awed by the number of lives she touched.”