PORT CHARLOTTE — The guy who started on opening day in 2021 will begin this season with a new set of surgical scars and a rehab schedule that likely stretches deep into the summer. The guys who started the third and fourth games are, coincidentally, both pitching for the Red Sox these days. The guy who started the eighth game is still looking for a big-league contract and the guy who started the ninth game is now wearing an Oakland uniform. Nope, this is not the same rotation the Rays had when spring training began in 2021. And that’s a good thing, even for a team that won 100 games. The remaking of Tampa Bay’s rotation that began early last season is now the backbone of a team that has designs on winning the American League East for a third consecutive season. It is, in some ways, the most remarkable transformation on a team that has grown accustomed to change. The Rays parted ways with two of their stars from the 2020 World Series (Charlie Morton and Blake Snell), cycled through a handful of short-term solutions in the first half of 2021 (Rich Hill, Michael Wacha and Chris Archer), survived a devastating injury to their would-be ace (Tyler Glasnow) and have landed in 2022 with a young, deep and talented group of starters to choose from. “It’s a really strong group of returning, young talent that we believe is still ascending,” said baseball operations president Erik Neander. “We’re being rushed here through spring training so there are still a lot of things that need to be figured out quickly, but I think it’s fair to say we feel good about the potential for this group.” You want potential? Shane McClanahan stepped into the void created by Glasnow’s injury and went 10-6 with a 3.43 ERA as a rookie last season. You want another? Drew Rasmussen transitioned from the bullpen to the rotation and went 3-0 with a 1.93 ERA in his 10 starts. How about some more? Luis Patino and Shane Baz are both 22 and have the kind of arms that make them chic picks in fantasy leagues. Add to that two-time Cy Young award winner Corey Kluber, who signed a one-year deal in November, and returning swing men Ryan Yarbrough and Josh Fleming, and the Rays have reason to be confident. It’s still not the prototypical setup with guys capable of throwing 200 innings or more at the top of the rotation. None of these pitchers threw more than 155 innings last season, and most will probably fall in the 100-150 inning range in 2022. And that means the Rays will be flexible when it comes to pitch counts and rest between starts. There’s probably a good chance Baz will begin at Triple-A, and the Rays could count on relievers such as Jalen Beeks, Chris Mazza, Jeffrey Springs and free-agent acquisition Brooks Raley taking on multi-inning roles. The Rays are not necessarily looking to supplement the bullpen, but will keep an eye on how the free-agent market sorts itself out in the next couple of weeks. Collin McHugh, who was spectacular in a versatile role last season, would be a coup if the Rays could convince him to re-sign. The idea is to get roughly 700-800 innings out of the rotation, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that’s the responsibility of five guys. The Rays could spread those innings among as many as seven starters at different points during the season, as well as the multi-inning relievers. “(Workload) has probably been our biggest conversation throughout the lockout,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “We have innings and workloads kind of earmarked for everybody but we want to have adjustability. “Talking to (pitching coach Kyle Snyder) and (head athletic trainer) Joe Benge, we’re just going to gradually look to jump people up.” As diverse as the group is, there is still some trepidation with so many young starters. McClanahan, Rasmussen and Baz pitched spectacularly down the stretch for the Rays, but they also combined to give up 11 runs in five innings in their final appearances of the season in Games 2, 3 and 4 of the American League Division Series against the Red Sox. “That’s the silver lining of what was an unfortunate postseason exit, to hopefully accelerate a lot of the maturity and experiences that are important to growing and being more competitive at the Major League level,” Neander said. “Those were invaluable learning experiences, no matter the outcome of those games. So I would say collectively, yeah, there is confidence in that group.” So is it exhilarating or daunting to try to sift through free agents, trade possibilities, workloads, rehab evaluations and rotation openings in an accelerated spring training? “I’ll let you know in a month,” Neander said. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.