Keep drivers sober Here is why Florida should legalize marijuana | March 22 Regardless of what Sen. Jeff Brandes thinks about it, here is why we should not legalize marijuana: We already have too many drunk drivers to contend with on our roads. We don’t need drunk drivers who are also high. Rick Cortese, Tampa COVID isn’t the only killer World TB Day The pandemic has now killed at least six million people around the world, but another potential killer with respiratory impact is tuberculosis. TB, too, can be prevented and treated. Unfortunately, the pandemic interrupted and prevented treatment for millions. We must get back on track to fight this disease, with a strong U.S. pledge to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria at the fund’s replenishment conference later this year. Today, March 24, is World TB Day. I urge President Joe Biden to include the first U.S. installment of $2 billion in his fiscal 2023 budget request and that Congress appropriate the same amount. Linda Schatz, Tampa A little pregnant Professor sues students for posting his exam | March 23 According to Chapman University professor David Berkavitz’s attorney, Marc Hankin, “He recognizes his very unique fact pattern.” Might I advise a so-called educated attorney there is no such thing as “very unique.” It would be comparative to saying someone is “very pregnant.” One is either unique or not; one is either pregnant or not. There is no very, maybe, sorta, kinda, little, or like. Unique is: “Being the only one of its kind; unlike anything else,” quote any dictionary. Harriet E. Browder, Clearwater And I mean ‘now’! Professor sues students for posting his exam | March 23 I read an article in today’s paper and notice the line, “Course Hero did not immediately respond to the (Washington) Post’s request for comment.” I regularly see this type of claim in news stories and, as a former reporter, always wonder: What does it mean? What constitutes “immediately”? Is it 30 seconds, five minutes, an hour? Does it mean that the entity did, indeed, respond, just not in a fashion suitable for the reporter’s liking? Do those who use this phrase really believe that the entire world is obligated to respond to a reporter’s inquiry immediately? For the sake of clarity moving forward, may I suggest that reporters stop using this petulant tactic and simply say the entity did not respond to questions. Bob Lasher, Clearwater