Albert Einstein famously said, “The only source of knowledge is experience. You need experience to gain wisdom.” As senators consider Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson’s qualifications to serve as our next associate justice on the U.S. Supreme Court, they are scrutinizing her experience as a former federal public defender. Of course, she is making history and breaking barriers as the first Black woman nominated to the high court. But she is also the first public defender up for confirmation as a justice and the first justice since Thurgood Marshall with significant experience representing criminal defendants to sit on the court. Critics, however, have challenged Jackson’s career choice to represent indigent criminal defendants in the first place and cast doubts on her ability to apply the law fairly because of her prior work. But much of the criticism stems from a misunderstanding of the role we public defenders play in our adversarial justice system, myths about our ideology and our work, and undervaluing the importance of indigent criminal defense experience to judicial responsibilities. Consider the role of public defenders in our justice system on a macro level. The modern public defense structure arises from the Supreme Court’s landmark decision Gideon v. Wainwright, which recognized the right to counsel for those accused of a crime regardless of socio-economic background as part of the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution. But the concept of public defense is hardly anything new in our nation’s history. Take John Adams’ defense of British soldiers for their roles in the 1770 Boston Massacre. Adams’ motivation for representing the reviled Redcoats came not from his belief in soldiers’ innocence (though he had his doubts about the events as they were reported) or his dislike of the murdered American patriots. Rather, it came from his belief in a system of equal justice, where all persons accused of a crime were entitled to a competent defense, even if the accused’s guilt seems clear at first blush. Likewise, representation of former public defenders in the judiciary, particularly one that is disproportionally populated by former prosecutors, serves to both ensure fairness in our criminal justice system and to provide assurances in the legitimacy of judicial decisions. That leads me to the criticism that public defenders are biased toward criminals and cannot be trusted to apply the law fairly. This criticism comes from a misapprehension about the job of a public defender and what our day-to-day lives look like. First, as a recent Pew Research study finds, the vast majority of federal criminal cases (90 percent) end with defendants pleading guilty. Fewer than 2 percent of all cases went go to trial, and even fewer led to acquittals. So just looking at the numbers, the notion that federal public defenders are undermining holding criminals accountable for their misdeeds, and flooding the streets with obviously guilty people is just plain wrong. Second, what critics seem to miss about the job of public defense is that on top of investigating defenses, weighing the evidence, and ensuring our clients’ constitutional rights were not infringed, a lot of our time is spent explaining a criminal case to our clients from indictment through an appeal, being honest with them about the likelihood of success, and counseling clients on their best options to resolve their case. Ask any public defender and they will tell you they often know more about the weaknesses of their cases than the prosecutors seem to know. We have to in order to properly advise our clients about the merits of their case, and ensure that our clients can make informed decisions about whether to plead guilty or stand trial. Third, critics also overlook that public defenders are themselves judicial officers, ethically bound to not only zealously advocate for our clients but also provide candor to the court. Defending a case differs from advocating for someone’s beliefs or actions, and the job of a public defender is the former, not the latter. The job of a public defender thus demands setting aside our beliefs about the facts of a case or history of a client, even when the facts are such that at least most of us would find reprehensible. But the job also requires providing judges and prosecutors with an accurate assessment of the gravity of our clients’ crimes. Advocacy 101 dictates we public defenders be scrupulously precise about precedent and applying the law. All that said, perhaps more than any other court, our nation’s highest court would greatly benefit from having the unique perspective of a former public defender advocate among its ranks. Supreme Court justices are tasked with the critical task of deciding the cases that the high court will hear. The court receives about 10,000 petitions a year, yet grants only a tiny fraction of those petitions, about 1 percent. These odds are even lower when you consider the difference between paid petitions, typically filed on behalf of corporate and wealthy clients, and in forma pauperis petitions, the predominant form that indigent criminal defendants file. The justices use the “Rule of Four” to decide which cases it will review, meaning at least four justices must deem a case worthy of the court’s time. Although there are no set criteria for the cases the court chooses, as most Supreme Court practitioners know, the court favors issues that have led to conflicting rulings among the lower courts and those of national importance on federal issues. The latter criteria are where a former public defender’s experience will be so important. By definition, public defenders represent those who cannot afford an attorney. That population might appear to be limited to a small subset of the lowest income bracket. But in reality, we represent clients from all walks of life as financial hardship knows no race, religion, gender or sexual orientation bounds. So our experience includes working with some of the most marginalized members of our society, across racial and ideological lines, learning about their lives and struggles, and seeing firsthand how they are disparately impacted by the criminal justice system. Having the experience representing such a broad array of Americans, a former public defender can provide valuable insight into the issues that affect everyday and overlooked people, and help her fellow justices understand the importance of these issues worthy of the court’s consideration. For instance, the number of months or years in prison, or the amount of a criminal fine, might just seem like numbers to someone who has never themselves experienced or represented those that have experienced those hardships. The same is true when considering issues of free speech, privacy and police-citizen encounters, just to name a few. You might not care in the abstract about your right to protest, the government’s power to search your cell phone, or to stop you on the street without a warrant, for example, but you might if they affected you, or you regularly saw how those actions can turn someone’s life upside down. As Jackson noted during her D.C. Circuit confirmation hearing, “I’ve experienced life in perhaps a different way than some of my colleagues because of who I am, and that might be valuable.” It shouldn’t take a genius like Einstein to see who Jackson is — her life experience as a Black woman, and professional experience, especially as a federal public defender — will bring much-needed wisdom from a historically missing perspective to the high court. Adeel M. Bashir is an Assistant Federal Public Defender and Appellate Supervisor with the Office of the Federal Public Defender for the Middle District of Florida. He is also the president of the American Muslim Bar Association (AMBA).