RALEIGH, N.C. — Everywhere they go, the Lightning feel the bull’s-eye. Throughout the ups and downs of the past two weeks, the Lightning have told themselves that they’re getting their opponents’ best games at every turn. Teams want to put a dent in the back-to-back Stanley Cup champions. Tuesday night at PNC Arena against a Carolina team that’s an improved version of the club they eliminated last postseason, the Lightning had their roster set for their playoff run. With a healthy lineup, and two key additions at the trade deadline, this is when fans should start seeing the Lightning round into postseason form. But following a 3-2 loss — the Lightning’s fifth in their past seven games — frustration was starting to show. Penalties continued to hurt them as Carolina scored two power-play goals on a penalty kill unit in transition. “We gave them a couple goals and then they got momentum off that,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “We probably got away from the game plan. We started taking pucks backwards where you really can’t do that against these guys, and we paid for it.” The night ended with the teams jawing at each other after the final buzzer, Lightning star forward Nikita Kucherov buzzing around looking for vindication he wouldn’t find. Minutes earlier, Kucherov hit a post that would have put the Lightning back in the game. In the third period, he took two penalties — one that negated a Tampa Bay power play and another one an interference call that raised the temperature for both teams and had Kucherov boiling. The Lightning (39-17-6) have scored two goals or fewer in five of their last six games, losing four of those contests. In the middle of a stretch of 11 games in 11 cities, they go into Thursday night’s game in Boston still seeking a win over a team that would qualify for the playoffs in May. Their last quality win was Feb. 23 at home over Edmonton. They knew what to expect from Carolina, a team they played eight times as a division foe last season. They knew they’d be in store for a low-scoring, tight-checking game. And the Lightning played well in the first period before falling flat in a second that saw the Hurricanes outshoot them 20-9. “They’re obviously a very good team and they’ve had a lot of success,” said captain Steven Stamkos, who hit the crossbar in the first two minutes of the game. “Offensively lately, we just haven’t haven’t been generating much or when we have, it’s just not going in the net. A couple posts, a couple decent chances where usually it’s in the net. Sometimes the tide can switch pretty quick if something good happens.” New Lightning forward Nick Paul, acquired Sunday in a trade that sent Mathieu Joseph to Ottawa, scored in his Tampa Bay debut on a nifty give-and-go play with forward Ross Colton. But he also was left out of position playing the F1 spot on the penalty kill on Carolina’s two power-play goals. “I didn’t have a good PK today,” Paul said. “I’ll own it. I’ve got to be a lot better. I’ve got to go back and watch the clips. Two PK goals on myself there is not acceptable. … It’s not too much different (than playing the PK in Ottawa) but that split second (matters).” Trailing 2-1, the Lightning opened the final period on the power play for the first 1:48, but Kucherov’s holding penalty 61 seconds in negated it. Instead of capitalizing on an early-period man advantage, Carolina padded its lead on Sebastian Aho’s goal 8:08 in. Alex Killorn made it a one-goal game with a minute remaining when he redirected Victor Hedman’s puck on net after the Lightning pulled goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy (38 saves) in 4-on-4 to gain an extra attacker. But with 26 seconds left and the Lightning looking for more extra attacker magic, Kucherov collided with Aho as Carolina won a defensive zone faceoff and attempted to push the puck up ice. Kucherov fumed over the call, arguing with the officials before going to the box, then went after Aho after the final buzzer, creating a lengthy standoff before the Lightning disappeared down the tunnel. The Lightning will meet the Hurricanes, who tied Florida for the most points (90) in the Eastern Conference with the win, again next Tuesday at Amalie Arena, and could face them in the postseason. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.