Mermaid performers who were inadvertently filmed changing clothes at the Clearwater Marine Aquarium in 2020 say the aquarium’s response over the past 15 months has been clumsy, inept and downright insensitive. In response to a meeting with the performers last week, the aquarium issued an apologetic statement saying the steps they had taken since they first learned of the incident were “not enough.” It said the organization “is committed to continuing to taking a deep look into this situation and giving it the attention it deserves.” The aquarium had asked for the meeting after seeing posts from the performers on social media and has since followed up via email, the women said. It came to light in June 2021, six months after the December 2020 incident, when the board of the aquarium was made aware that security cameras placed in a room where the women were changing captured their images without their knowledge. Two aquarium executives watched the video in January 2021 before deleting it, but they didn’t tell anyone else in the organization or the women, the aquarium’s chairman of the board of directors, Paul Auslander, confirmed to the Tampa Bay Times in August 2021. Auslander was sent an email by a former employee alerting him of the incident. The aquarium then hired a law firm to investigate. The attorneys concluded the recording was not intentional and found the viewing was more a case of the two employees trying to decide what to do, according to Auslander. Vice president of operations and zoological care Mike Hurst, who showed the video to CEO Frank Dame, resigned on July 31 while he was on paid leave amid the investigation. Dame stepped down in September, saying he needed to focus on his ongoing treatment for cancer. The way the aquarium has handled the situation has infuriated Ashley Mengel and Caroline Don, two of the performers from Blue Mermaid Designs who were recorded that day. The performers said they weren’t notified of the incident by the aquarium. They were alerted by a tip from a whistleblower many months later. The incident was confirmed 11 days before the group was set to perform a series of summer shows at the aquarium. They said they went ahead with those shows last August, though Don, 28, said it was extremely awkward and only seemed to confirm their worst fears. “When we got there, the camera was ripped out of the wall and wires were hanging out. But we were told under no circumstances should we get naked in that room,” Don said. “It was like they weren’t sure if there were more cameras around.” Afterward, the group sent a proposal for more shows at the aquarium the following winter and spring that went unanswered. It felt like they were being punished for being victims, said Mengel, 32. The aquarium further put salt in their wounds, Mengel said, when it announced a different mermaid company would be performing there this spring. “They used our likeness in photos to promote the new event,” Mengel said. “Seeing those images felt like they were mocking our trauma.” After a meeting last week with the women, the board voted “out of respect for the Blue Mermaids performers” to cancel the spring performances at the aquarium by the other mermaid company. They were given an update on new sexual harassment policies and ones that allow employees to make complaints anonymously or meet with human resources offsite. Don said that made her feel like going public is having a positive effect on women who work there. “It seemed like it was a pretty toxic work environment, so I’m glad we are part of changing that and making it safer for regular employees,” Don said. Meanwhile, Mengel said, she doesn’t feel that the people responsible have been sufficiently disciplined. “Mike resigned, and we couldn’t press charges because so much time had passed and evidence was destroyed. So he received no punishment,” Mengel said. “Frank retired and still has a seat on the board, so he was also not punished.” The law firm the aquarium hired found that the cameras were set up in a utility room where the women changed clothes and were part of an overall security system that accidentally recorded the women. Hurst, an employee of 11 years, was in charge of the camera program, Auslander said. When reached Monday, Hurst declined to comment. Dame, the former CEO, is undergoing chemotherapy for a rare blood disorder. As recently as last week, he was listed as an emeritus member of the aquarium’s board of directors. As of Monday, his name no longer appears as a board member on the aquarium’s website. But in an email, a spokesperson said, “Frank Dame is the honorary Chairman Emeritus with no voting privileges.” The aquarium sent this statement to the Tampa Bay Times: Clearwater Marine Aquarium and our Board of Directors are committed to making meaningful change in light of the troubling concerns recently brought to us on social media. When new leadership came onboard at CMA after this situation became known, it was assumed this issue had been resolved. The CMA Board worked with Carlton Fields, a reputable firm in Tampa, to launch an internal investigation. Those findings were then verbally shared with the Board and as a result, preventative measures were taken to ensure such an incident could not happen again. It is now very clear to us that the steps taken were not enough. We recently engaged in conversations with the original company and their team to hear their story, respect their voices, and begin the healing process. Although CMA had made a business decision to hire a separate company in 2022 based on a number of factors, including price, their proximity and focus on education. Out of respect for the Blue Mermaids performers the decision has been made to cancel those performances at CMA this spring. We will be focused on our core mission including sharing the new Remembering Winter VR experience, Rescue Town children’s play zone, as well as sea turtle awareness and our life-saving manatee rescue efforts. That said, CMA is committed to continuing to taking a deep look into this situation and giving it the attention it deserves. Our priority is to rebuild trust and become a model for a safe and supportive work environment for everyone. Times staff writer Tracey McManus contributed to this report.