TAMPA — A part of Lettuce Lake Park on Fletcher Avenue is getting a new name. This week, Hillsborough County commissioners voted unanimously to rename the nature and visitors center at the park for Joel Jackson, who retired after a combined 40 years of public service to the county and city of Tampa. Jackson is a founding member of Save Our Bay, which organized in 1969 to prevent the proposed dredging and filling of nearly 2,000 acres of the upper Tampa Bay shoreline. He became parks and recreation planner for Tampa in 1970 and later moved to Hillsborough County as its parks planning section manager. He managed the county’s $10 million parks bond program from 1977-83, an effort that established three new natural resource parks — Upper Tampa Bay, Lettuce Lake and Alderman’s Ford parks — and renovated several others including E.G. Simmons, Eureka Springs, and Edward Medard parks. “These parks are spread throughout the county and each one is a gem, wonderfully planned by Joel Jackson,” said Commissioner Mariella Smith. Jackson also had the foresight to recognize the growing popularity of skateboarding and created the first public skate bowl in the state of Florida, said Smith. The Bro Bowl is in Perry Harvey Sr. Park in Tampa. Jackson advocated for public land acquisition as one of the few ways to ensure long-term protection of valuable environmental property. The county said his efforts to preserve the 1,500-acre Bower Tract from development in the early 1980s played a key role in the creation of Hillsborough County’s Environmental Lands Acquisition and Protection Program, known commonly by the acronym ELAPP. Jackson retired from the county in 2009 and has remained active as a volunteer member of the environmental land program’s general committee and its planning sub-committee. He is a longtime member of the Florida Native Plant Society and Tampa Audubon Society. On weekends, he can be found leading plant-identification hikes at Lettuce Lake Park and various county preserves.