The Rays travel south to Fort Myers today for the fourth time in nine days but the last of the abbreviated spring, as they face the Red Sox. First pitch is at 1:05. Veteran free-agent addition Corey Kluber will be on the mound in his spring debut, expected to work 2-3 innings. Lefty Brooks Raley, the team’s other free-agent pickup, is among the relievers scheduled for action, along with Matt Wisler, J.P. Feyereisen and JT Chargois. Also Saturday: • Centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier said he started feeling groin tightness during baserunning drills and batting practice Friday and decided it was better to rest for a couple of days than run the risk of a more severe injury. He expects to get back on the field Tuesday. “I’m not worried about it whatsoever,” Kiermaier said. “It’s just kind of a precautionary thing. It’s still not ideal, but I’ve got my mind set on April 8 (the season opener), and I know I’ll be more than ready for that. This is just another little bump in the road, but if anyone can get through it, it’s me. I promise you that. I’ll be ready to go.” • GM Peter Bendix said the Rays acquired outfielder Harold Ramirez primarily for his bat and would expect the right-handed hitter, who is out of options and can’t be sent to the minors, to be used primarily as a designated hitter. “We saw somebody who can hit,” Bendix said. “We like his bat, and especially against left-handed pitching. It’s an area where we could use some help right now. And so, he’s somebody that we think can raise our floor against left-handed pitching and kind of lengthen out the lineup. And that’s something we’ve been looking for for a while now. ... So if he can come in and just kind of hit and DH, I think that’s what we’re looking for.” Ramirez just reported to Cubs camp on Friday, having been delayed by visa issues in his native Colombia, so Bendix said the Rays will have to get a sense of how ready he is for game action. • Right-hander Luis Patino is set to throw a live batting practice session this morning in Port Charlotte to test the sore shoulder that bumped him from a planned Tuesday start. Here is the Rays’ lineup: And for the Red Sox: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.