TAMPA — The Bucs are negotiating a long-term deal with Chris Godwin but preparing to use the franchise player tag on their top receiver for the second straight year if an agreement can’t be reached. Godwin led the team with 98 receptions for 1,103 yards (he also scored five touchdowns) this past season despite sustaining torn anterior cruciate and medial collateral ligaments in his right knee following a hit by Saints defensive back P.J. Williams in December. Because the Bucs used the franchise tag on Godwin last year, they have to guarantee him 120 percent of his salary in 2022, or roughly $19.18 million, if they apply that designation again by Tuesday’s 4 p.m. deadline. That’s a huge amount of money to tie up entering the free-agent negotiating period March 14-16. The Bucs would have until July 15 to continue to negotiate a long-term agreement with any franchise player. Coach Bruce Arians estimated that Godwin is about 45-percent recovered from his injury but said the Bucs have full confidence he will return to form. As for using the franchise tag on Godwin again, Arians said last week at the NFL scouting combine, “I wouldn’t say it’s out of the question. Hopefully not, so we can do something else. I would love to get him under contract. “Chris is so valuable to what we do, and obviously we really, really want him back.” Godwin, 26, played last season under a franchise player tag of $15.983 million. Unfortunately, not reaching a long-term accord backfired due to the severe nature of the injury, which potentially could affect his value on the open market. Bucs general manager Jason Licht concurred that re-signing Godwin is a priority despite a star-studded list of their own free agents that include defensive back Carlton Davis, tight end Rob Gronkowski, running back Leonard Fournette, center Ryan Jensen, guard Alex Cappa, defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh, defensive end William Gholston, outside linebacker Jason Pierre-Paul and safety Jordan Whitehead. All those players are set to hit the free-agent market next week, and the Bucs hope to retain most of them once they are able to create more salary-cap space. But Godwin is their priority. “It would be hard for me to imagine moving forward without Chris,” Licht said. Davis, the Bucs’ top cornerback, would be the other candidate to receive the franchise tag. That would cost $17.295 million. But he has missed 14 games over the past four seasons, including seven during the regular season in 2021. Still, both Arians and Licht recognize Davis as one of the top cornerbacks in the league. “When he plays 16 games,” Arians said. “That’s been his only hold-up, because of his injuries. When he’s out there, he’s a hell of a player.” Ideally, the Bucs would like to at least reach an agreement with Godwin and possibly use the franchise tag on Davis. “All options are on the table,” Licht said last week. “(Davis) is a very good player. We’ve drafted a lot of corners over the years, and he’s been a very good player — when he’s been healthy.” The Bucs are in the process of freeing up salary-cap space by restructuring a few deals as they have done in the past. It’s as simple as converting the base salary of some players into a bonus. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.