Vladimir Putin is not only at war with Ukraine. He’s at war with the West and with large segments of his own population. On Wednesday, the Russian leader made several statements that were profoundly reminiscent of the darkest period in Russian/Soviet history: the Stalin era. Putin called a meeting with regional officials and members of his government to discuss the challenges imposed by Western sanctions. He began the meeting with a long speech that offered a window on his Stalinist mentality and illustrates the distinct danger that he represents for the world. At a time when the Russian military’s brutal invasion is terrorizing civilians across Ukraine, and concentrating the world’s attention on Kyiv, Mariupol and Kharkiv, Putin’s focus was elsewhere. He drew attention to two distinct enemies beyond Ukraine: the West and Russians who embrace Western values. In an angry rant that was full of World War II references, he again justified his “special military operation” on the grounds that “the pro-Nazi regime in Ukraine” was committing “an actual genocide” against ethnic Russians in the Donbas. He repeated that Russia was pursuing the “demilitarization and denazification” of Ukraine and indicted the Ukrainian government’s “Western handlers” and “Western patrons.” For Putin, the West represents a potent enemy whose “goal is to destroy Russia.” Sanctions would have been imposed on Russia no matter what, he claimed, because “the policy of containing and weakening Russia, including through economic isolation, a blockade, represents a deliberate, long-term strategy.” The West initiated an “economic blitzkrieg against Russia” and seeks “to cancel” Russia. For the Russian leader, this is an existential conflict, and Russia is fighting a war for its very existence. Putin notes that “the fight that we are waging is the fight for our sovereignty and the future of our country and our children. We will fight for the right to be and remain Russia.” It’s important for Americans to encounter Putin’s Stalinist language because it helps explain the unimaginable terror of the Russian campaign in Ukraine. He’s waging a war both inside and beyond Ukraine. This is how he talks about the West: “Their goal is to deliver a blow to our entire economy, our social and cultural sphere, every family and every Russian citizen. … One cannot help but remember the antisemitic Nazi pogroms in Germany in the 1930s, and then pogroms perpetrated by their henchmen in many European countries that joined the Nazi aggression against our country during the Great Patriotic War.” As in World War II, Russia is in a battle for its very existence in his mind. The Russian leader has asserted that the Ukrainian government operates a biological weapons program “under the direction and with financial support from the Pentagon” that involved a network of dozens of laboratories conducting experiments using lethal bacterial and viral illnesses like coronavirus and cholera. Americans might think that the war in Ukraine is not our war, that it’s a matter between Russia and Ukraine. This is not the case. We must take Putin’s words seriously. It’s our war because Putin is at war with us, too. He is also at war with many of his own citizens, those who have bravely protested the war across Russia despite the risks of imprisonment for up to 15 years. In his angry speech on Wednesday, he described how the West is using its “fifth column” to provoke civil unrest within in Russia. The notion of “a fifth column” emerged in the 1930s and refers to a group of people that secretly works on behalf of a country’s enemies during wartime. Having infiltrated prominent segments of society, so-called fifth columnists operate clandestinely to undermine their government from within. This is classic Stalinist language. One of Josef Stalin’s motivations for the great purges of 1936-1938 was to eliminate “fifth columnists” who the dictator believed would work in support of Nazi Germany in the event of war. To terrorize the population into submission, Stalin assassinated over three-quarters of a million “enemies of the people” in less than three years and condemned many more to brutal and often lethal forced labor. When the war with Nazi Germany began, repression on the home front continued, as ordinary Soviet citizens were arrested on a wide range of spurious “counterrevolutionary” charges including “traitor to the motherland.” This framing of enemies and traitors has been ominously revived by Putin. In his speech on Wednesday, he insisted that “the Russian people will always be able to distinguish true patriots from scum and traitors and will simply spit them out like an insect in their mouth, spit them onto the pavement. I am convinced that this kind of natural and necessary self-purification of society would strengthen our country.” He is telling Russians that they should prepare for mass repression. Putin is fighting a war well beyond the borders of Ukraine. Golfo Alexopoulos is director of the Institute on Russia and professor in the School of Interdisciplinary Global Studies at the University of South Florida.