An ‘all-fly zone’ Zelensky pleads to U.S. Congress for help in Ukraine: ‘We need you right now’ | March 16 We balk at the risks of a “no-fly zone” over Ukraine. We balk at the transfer of Polish fighter planes to Ukrainian pilots. Yet, somehow, we don’t see providing Stinger missiles and other air defense systems as unduly provocative, and we can’t imagine why Vladimir Putin might have differed (as he said out loud) and bombed a base that is 10 miles from Poland as his obvious brushback to our military support. I guess the MiGs that shot down 85 of our planes in Vietnam came from North Vietnam’s vaunted aerospace industry? Regardless, procrastination has made these interventions irrelevant. Russia has gone into a medieval siege mode. Sieges can be delayed militarily as the Ukrainians have demonstrated. They can be broken with food, water, medicines and other vital, non-military supply. The exit ramp for Putin is Crimea plus a land bridge. But that cannot tempt once the besieged cities fall. The new metaphor should become an “all-fly zone.” We had success with this in the Berlin Airlift. Humanitarian aid puts the escalatory shoe back on the aggressor’s foot, where it has always belonged. Cautious, openly debated, slowly effectuated and mainly economic reactions to the enemy’s initiatives have emboldened rather deterred. Daring Putin to shoot down a NATO fighter is quite different from daring him to fire at a UN cargo plane with a manifest and flight plan delivered to Moscow in advance. Let’s be proactive, creative, helpful and fast. Pat Byrne, Largo It’s OK to say gay Why Gov. DeSantis should veto the ‘don’t say gay’ bill| Column, March 17 The kindergartener says “How come Bobby has two dads?” The teacher says families come in many shapes, and we don’t decide which shape someone else’s family should take. The middle schooler is bullied daily because he wears pink shirts and says he has always been a girl. A teacher stops an egregious episode and initiates discussion on why we should respect who people are, whether or not that is just like who we are. The two high school girls hold hands as they leave campus; their lockers are trashed and boys threateningly offer to “teach them what a real man can do for them.” Should no adult step in? Some say no one in a school classroom should discuss these situations. All discussion should come from home. The teachers should say they may not discuss this, may not deviate from the academic lesson. Books disappear from school libraries, lest children discover there are others like themselves, questioning, unsure or simply different. Do people think LGBTQ is catching, like measles? That reading a book or hearing a discussion will “turn” children gay? Do they think discussion will corrupt kids? If the parents do as some conservatives wish, will straight children be safe from this “contagion”? Or will they go home and ask questions? Meanwhile, they will have met ideas encouraging acceptance of people different from themselves. (Isn’t that a principle of democracy?) School is about academics, yes, but it is also about so much more. C.M. Dunn, Clearwater Woke and wide awake Disney, DeSantis at odds | March 12 Gov. Ron DeSantis seems to be waging war on “wokeness.” Well, I am a “woke” person. And that means several things: 1. I am awake, and I am watching as the world is changing, unlike those who would prefer to go back to sleep and pretend that we live a hundred years ago. 2. I am awake, and I am worried by the increasingly restrictive and vindictive laws being enacted by legislatures in Florida and elsewhere. 3. I am awake, and I vote. Robert Hogue, Apollo Beach Obama’s teachable moment Obama tests positive for coronavirus | March 14 Black Americans have the lowest COVID vaccination rate in the country, with 57 percent having received at least one dose, compared with 62 percent of white Americans, 64 percent of Hispanics and 84 percent of Asian-Americans. Former President Barack Obama could use his positive test for COVID as a teachable moment that his full vaccination save his health — and possibly his life — and urge more Black Americans to get vaccinated. John Spengler, Spring Hill Lessons from history American civic duty In Athens, young adults spent two years in public service. Many over 30 formed a huge council to make laws for the population. In Rome, citizens had extensive and regular civic duties. Elected officials served only one-year terms, so many would have the opportunity of being leaders. In Israel, land-owning parents administered the law among all relatives, boarders and workers on their land. Parents taught law and literacy to their children. In England, families contributed labor to the castle guard, just as in America men rotated duty as night watchmen. Both democracies had extensive militia and jury duty requirements. Today, Americans shirk even jury duty and can’t be bothered to vote in local elections. We have withdrawn from charitable causes and civic, electoral and church participation. We are too busy with social media, video gaming, Netflix-binging, on-line shopping, porn and the new sports gambling craze to be of service to our country and our fellow human beings. The shame falls squarely on business, political and even church leaders, who regularly invite us to lead highly privatized lives dedicated to their products, services and causes. Can’t we do better? Kimball Shinkoskey, Woods Cross, Utah