TAMPA ― Sam Piazza is a homecoming king, a movie star and an inspiration. Now, he is a rap video star, too. Piazza and his best friends Nick Altieri and David Scott, each of whom also has Down syndrome, are featured in the music video for the sports rap song It’s Game Time. The video was released on Monday night, which was World Down Syndrome Day. March is also Developmental Disabilities Awareness Month. “I wanted to show that they can do anything,” said Renee Warmack, who made the video. “People focus on them as individuals with a disability. I prefer to see their abilities. They have jobs, they have friends, they are educated, they are fun, they are productive members of our society. Let’s stop missing that.” Piazza, 32, works at PDQ. Altieri, 32, works for Public Defender Julianne M. Holt. And Scott, 31, works at Publix. The video, which also features Down syndrome achievement center GiGi’s Playhouse, showcases the friends playing football, baseball and basketball and, of course, dancing. Mayor Jane Castor joins the friends in a game of basketball played at Brooks-DeBartolo Collegiate High School, with retired Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Michael Clayton portraying the courtside announcer. The friends also toss a championship trophy over a pool to poke fun at Tom Brady, who threw the Lombardi Trophy from one boat to another during the Super Bowl parade. “We’re just trying to have fun,” Warmack laughed. Each friend was part of Warmack’s 2019 documentary, Because of Sam. The movie focused on Piazza and his story of being a child ostracized for his Down syndrome who became a teenager voted the 2009 homecoming king at Gaither High School. Piazza’s acceptance speech, which he wrote, read, “It is an honor to be part of a community that has been so willing to look at everyone as a unique individual with different talents.” The documentary title was inspired by an oft-used quote from people moved by Piazza’s accomplishments to chase their own dreams. “They say, ‘I did this because of Sam,’” Warmack said. It’s Game Time, performed by Chicago rapper Tommy Cicero, was featured in the Because of Sam end credits. “I thought it would also be a great anthem for Champa Bay,” Warmack said. She considered featuring Tampa’s professional sports teams, but then decided that Piazza, Altieri and Scott should be the stars. “We hear a lot about Champa Bay,” Warmack said. “Sam, Nick and David are at the heart of Champa Bay. They are champions.”