TAMPA — Founders of the Gasparilla International Film Festival celebrated the inaugural event with a round of tequila shots at the closing night party in 2007. The shot circle also included the voice of Captain Planet the cartoon character, the actor who portrayed Genghis Kahn in Night at the Museum, the screenwriter of Murder at 1600 and professional wrestler Sean Waltman. They toasted to the environment, in Mongolian. “That set the tone for what was to come,” said Eric Odum, founding president of the festival. The Tampa festival celebrates its 15th anniversary when the event kicks off on March 10. Organizers say The Disappearance of Toby Blackwood, Framing Agnes and The Outfit are among the highlights of the film schedule. But the annual event’s most memorable moments are not always scheduled. “That’s the thing about film festivals,” said Tyler Martinolich, the Hillsborough County film commissioner and festival board member. “You never know what is going to happen, so you don’t want to miss a moment.” What was the most unforgettable moment of the first 14 festivals? “Tommy Wiseau,” Martinolich said. Current festival president Tim Zehnder agreed. “Tommy Wiseau definitely brought a whole new level of craziness,” Zehnder said. “The passion of everyone who came out was beyond our expectations.” Wiseau is best known for producing, writing, directing and starring in The Room, which has the dubious distinction of being considered the worst movie ever made. In 2018, his movie Best F(r)iends was part of the festival. “After each show, he would sell underwear branded with his name on it,” Martinolich said. “The theater was just this madhouse-like carnival atmosphere where people are screaming his name and taking their tops off, asking to be signed, and underwear is being flung around. I’ve never seen anything like that in my life.” Odum recalled the year that actor Shane West was in attendance in 2008 to support his film, What We Do Is Secret. “He walks outside the movie theater to check out the scene, and about 30 or 40 women spot him and go nuts because he’s the guy from A Walk to Remember,” said Odum, who no longer volunteers for the festival. “He rushes back inside the theater and the women storm it. He had to flee to a balcony. His girlfriend was not happy.” And then there was the time in 2013 when actor Thomas Jane was there for a 10th anniversary screening of his movie The Punisher, which was shot in Tampa. “He insisted on being barefooted the entire time,” Odum said. “That’s just what he does. He hates wearing shoes.” Actor Colin Farrell made a surprise appearance in 2013 to support a friend’s film. “No one knew he was coming,” Martinolich said. “And then, in the middle of Hyde Park, a limo pulls up and Colin Farrell gets out looking incredibly dapper and people go insane.” Executive director Monica Varner considers the festival’s best party to be the closing night event in 2011 held in downtown’s vacant Kress department store building. “We were the first to use that building for a party and the first in a long time to use it for anything,” Varner said. “We had this great burlesque theme and stilt walking and graffiti artists.” Odum remembers it for something else. “The wardrobe malfunction,” he said. “One of the burlesque dancers had an unfortunate wardrobe malfunction. There was a group of politicians near the stage and as soon as that happened, they all ran out, afraid that the show was taking a turn. But it was a total accident.” Zehnder’s favorite festival memory is a PG story. “The last one when Justin and Christian Long attended their movie Lady of the Manor that they made in Tampa,” he said. “They had this great interaction with the audience. That energy, the back and forth of the actors and the audience, is everything we strive to bring. That’s why you go to film festivals.” If you go  The Gasparilla International Film Festival runs March 10-13 at theaters throughout Tampa. For a schedule of ticket information, visit gasparillafilmfestival.com.