TAMPA — So there are things about the 2021-22 Lightning you just know are true: For instance, they are still formidable. Still skilled. Still tougher than most and still resilient. And then there are things about the Lightning that you desperately hope are true: Like, um, are they still the NHL’s best? Really, at this point in the season, is there any other question? It’s early March and the Lightning once again are hovering near the top of the division. They have replaced the third line, they have integrated youngsters into the lineup, they have survived another Nikita Kucherov injury. By any normal measure, the Lightning have already had a successful season. But normal isn’t going to cut it around here. And that’s why games such as Thursday night’s 5-1 loss to Pittsburgh can leave you staring at the ceiling deep into a sleepless night. Yes, the Lightning played poorly. They admitted that, accepted that, wore that. You’re going to have nights like that in a long season, and this one just happened to come against another elite team, so the final score might lead to some raised eyebrows around the league. “I’m not sitting here saying Pittsburgh’s a better team than us,” coach Jon Cooper said. “They’re a really good team; we’re a really good team. They were exponentially better than us (Thursday night). So for one night, give them credit. I’m just disappointed in how we played.” “Exponentially better” is a strong description, and it may not even do it justice. Including blocks and misses, the Penguins fired 75 shots in the direction of the net while the Lightning had only 45. Tampa Bay also had 17 giveaways compared to four by Pittsburgh. This was an undeniable beatdown, and no one was arguing otherwise. “They’re a good team over there,” said Pat Maroon, who had an assist on Tampa Bay’s only goal. “They did what we do to a lot of teams. They did that to us (Thursday night).” But here’s the problem: Lately, the Lightning have been beating up only the NHL’s weak links. On Philadelphia and Buffalo and Arizona. When it has come to games against Florida, Colorado or the New York Rangers, the Lightning always seem to be having an off night. But what if it’s more than that? What if that’s the new normal around here? Look at it this way: There are 10 other teams that have a points percentage above .600 this season. The Lightning have now played 20 games against those teams and have won only seven times. And three of those were in overtime. A year ago, that would not have been a concern. You got the sense the Lightning were just biding their time until the postseason, and that pretty much is the way things turned out. This time it feels different. It looks different. The Lightning are ahead of last season’s pace, and yet it feels like they are chasing shadows from their past. It feels as if the Lightning have often been a step behind the NHL’s big boys this season. That they no longer have that extra gear that separates them from other elite teams. And it makes you wonder if, at the same time the Lightning have taken a half-step backward, the rest of the NHL’s top teams have taken a half-step forward. So if Tampa Bay’s 7-8-5 record against the NHL’s top contenders does not worry you, then perhaps this might: The Lightning have been outscored 68-53 in those games. Now some of that can be attributed to lopsided losses early in the season when they were still finding their footing with a half-dozen new faces on the roster. But even since Kucherov’s return in early January, the Lightning are 1-3 and have been outscored 14-9 against the league’s better teams. The good news is the Lightning are too disciplined to let easy points slip away. They almost always win the games they are supposed to win, and that’s why they have more points than any other franchise since 2013-14. They are 28-4-1 this season in games against teams that are not obvious Stanley Cup contenders. “(When) we’re playing the right way,” Maroon said, “we’re untouchable.” That was true last year. It was true the year before, too. Come April and the playoffs, it may even be true again. But right now, it is more hope than reality. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.