TAMPA — Ukraine’s armed forces and its people have been lauded around the world for resisting the Russian invasion. The daily bulletins of defiance are a source of pride for Anastisiya Pylypenko, a Ukrainian students studying linguistics at the University of South Florida, while reports of death and destruction drive her anxieties. Her father, Alex Pylypenko, is a retired colonel working with the Ukrainian military in Lviv. Since the invasion, she said, he has worked nonstop traveling from city to city to help organize their nation’s defenses. For Anastisiya, 26, it’s hard to watch from afar with no way to provide direct support to her people and her country. Her family has U.S. residency. Her parents could escape here, but she knows her father won’t abandon his country during this crisis. “He’s not on the frontlines, but he’s still, you know, risking his life,” she said. “I feel a lot of pride (that) he never considered leaving the country.” Anastisiya, is doing what she can to raise awareness of the devastating conflict and to call for more support for her country. She was among about 50 mostly Ukrainian students who held a peace rally at USF’s Tampa campus Wednesday. The graduate student who speaks five languages wore a vyshyvanka, a traditional Ukrainian embroidered blouse with billowy sleeves. Her blond hair was in braids tied with yellow and blue ribbons, her country’s national colors. A Ukraine flag was painted on her cheek. Students held signs with messages like “Ukraine is and will be” and “Shelter the sky,” a call for the west to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine to protect its citizens from being bombed. She is constantly thinking about her parents, especially her mother, Iryna, who suffers from an inflammatory disease that can cause some of the bones in the spine to fuse. Without regular injections, her mother will suffer from severe pain. The daughter fears that her mother may not be admitted into a local hospital for treatment if it becomes overwhelmed treating wounded civilians and soldier. Her family lives in Lviv, a city renowned for its museums, concert halls, galleries and arts festivals. Located in west Ukraine, about an hour from the Polish border, it had been considered a safe haven in the build-up to the invasion because it was far from disputed regions on the Russian border. Anastasiya hoped their city would be a safe haven when the conflict started. Now she believes nowhere in her country is safe. Russian forces have stepped up the bombing of cities and civilians targets in recent days. The United Nations has recorded 406 civilian deaths, including 27 children, and 801 injuries in Ukraine as of Monday. Kherson, a city of 285,000 has fallen to Russian troops, according to reports. More than 2 million Ukrainian refugees have fled their homes. ‘Nobody’s going to celebrate this year’ More than one week into the invasion, Anistasiya’s life feels unreal, her focus thousands of miles away. Since the invasion started, it’s been impossible to think about going to sleep until she knows her family and friends have survived another night. That means staying up until 2 a.m. to hear from them. Still, she finds it hard to fall asleep when there are always new developments overnight from her homeland. “We constantly want updates,” she said. “It’s never enough.” At the start of the invasion, she focused on reading Western news media because she wanted to know how her country was perceived. Now she mostly follows her friends back home who post images on their Instagram accounts from Kyiv and Kharkiv showing casualties and people fleeing for safety. There are videos that show explosions, and bombed out structures including a university building in Kharkiv. “It’s people who live there, you know, who experience these things,” she said. “And that’s, that’s like the first news you want to see because it’s actually live and happening there.” She has found herself crying, usually in private, but once while shopping in the Publix in Tampa Palms. Surrounded by people pushing shopping carts full of groceries, their lives continuing as normal, Anastasiya said she just broke down. Everyday life suddenly made no sense. “I was like, people are really, like, dying right now,” she said. “It’s all happening and here I am getting groceries and people are decorating for Easter. “But there’s no Easter in Ukraine. Nobody’s going to celebrate this year.” Seeing her homeland under attack, she thinks about all the times she’s read about countries in other parts of the world caught up in conflicts or natural disasters. She wonders if it will mean more to people in the U.S. than a brief period of sympathy expressed in a handful of social media posts. It’s different when the images of destruction she sees on her phone are of your own homeland, she said. “I understand that as much as people want to care right now, they can’t really grasp how horrific it is seeing the streets where you grew up, or your university being bombed to ashes.”