ST. PETERSBURG — The feeling-out process that typifies the start of most professional soccer matches held true for the Rowdies in the season opener. A first-half injury involving new central defender Robert Castellanos and gradual mixing in of new attackers in the second half Sunday led to some promising moments but ultimately a 1-1 draw at Birmingham. Tonight’s home opener brings an opponent going through the same process. Indy Eleven has a new head coach and struggled to create much in the way of offense in a 1-0 loss at Loudoun United. “We’re putting a lot of emphasis on how can we be better, what we can keep looking to improve, and just find our feet as we get into the new season,” Rowdies head coach Neill Collins said. “It’s a real balance right now. We’re not overdoing it on (studying) the opposition, because they’re finding their feet as well.” The Rowdies were knocked back on their heels less than 15 minutes into the opener. Castellanos sprained his ankle, and suddenly the man brought in to replace departed Defensive MVP of the league Forrest Lasso was out. Castellanos will miss this weekend and likely several more games. Laurence Wyke dropped back to play defender, midfielder Junior Etou made an earlier-than-expected debut and the Rowdies did well enough. But it will be interesting to see if Collins chooses to go with another recent addition, Timmy Mehl, in the starting lineup or perhaps slot Conner Antley to a fullback spot in his 3-5-2 formation. “Obviously not ideal (with) Casty going down,” midfielder Lewis Hilton said. “Junior came on and played really well, really good at interrupting (Birmingham’s) play and driving the ball.” Still, the Rowdies, who grabbed a first-half lead on Sebastian Dalgaard’s goal, didn’t enjoy much continuity in their attack. Not until Birmingham drew level in the 86th minute did Tampa Bay go full force offensively, nearly winning it on impressive strikes by new additions Kyle Greig and Jake Areman. Greig’s effort was noteworthy as it came off a Hilton corner kick. Over the past two seasons, Lasso was on the end of many such services, but Greig showed that he could be a suitable replacement. “We have multiple guys on the squad that are really good at attacking the ball, and my job is to put it in the area for them to get on the end of,” Hilton said. “We probably have five, six guys that are good in the air and I’ve played with Kyle before (in St. Louis) and he’s really good at attacking those deliveries, good at anticipating and getting on the end of things. So hopefully we can get one of those on Saturday.” Indy Eleven has failed to make the playoffs the past two seasons, going 9-15-8 last year, 12 points out of a playoff spot. It brought in former El Paso coach Mark Lowry, one of the three finalists for USL Championship Coach of the Year in 2021, an honor that went to Collins. Indy struggled in its opener, only getting off four shots in a game played with snow drifts surrounding the pitch at Loudoun. Manuel Arteaga returns after a 10-goal season but Indy struggled to score in general, averaging right on one goal across 32 matches. The Eastern Conference championship banner will be put on display before tonight’s matchup. Kickoff is 7:30 p.m.