Though last season ended in the most bitter fashion, the Tampa Bay Rowdies hardly were in need of an overhaul. After all, they had the best record in the entire USL Championship. With just a few notable changes, the Rowdies embark upon their 2022 season Sunday when they visit Birmingham Legion FC in a 5 p.m. match that will air nationally on ESPN2. The Rowdies dumped Birmingham in each of the past two postseasons en route to winning the Eastern Conference. Last year’s match was a tight 1-0 affair in the conference semifinals, ahead of the overtime rally against Louisville that landed Tampa Bay in the final. The Rowdies, at 26-7-2, looked poised to claim the league trophy but Orange County had other ideas. Rowdies captain Sebastian Guenzatti was stopped on a penalty kick early, and the visitors stunned Tampa Bay with three first-half goals, winning 3-1. “Many people would say that after the season that we had, it’s difficult to improve,” said Neill Collins, into his fifth season as Tampa Bay’s head coach. “So you’re starting to look more at the finer details. I think on paper, our squad, the competition’s really unbelievable.” Guenzatti, two shy of the career franchise record with 58 goals, collected 22 last season and returns along with essentially every attacking player of significance. That group includes veteran Steevan Dos Santos, who in his first Rowdies’ season added 12 goals despite missing nearly three months with a broken foot, and playmaker Leo Fernandes (eight goals, six assists). But the long spell where several forwards were hurt led Collins to bolster the attacking group. Kyle Greig, 31, who scored five goals for Louisville last season and 23 across the previous three with Saint Louis, was brought in. And 22-year-old Jake LaCava, who scored 11 goals in two years for New York Red Bulls II, prompting the MLS club to re-sign him, will spend the year on loan to Tampa Bay. “Kyle will give us a hand, and with Jake, mindful he’s a young player, I’ve got a lot of expectations for him,” Collins said. “I think he serves very well in terms of his attitude, his work rate, but on top of that he’s got real quality to dribble and drive at people. He’s someone who can score goals from outside the box, which is maybe something that we’ve not had as much of.” With super sub Lucky Mkosana and Juan Tejada back, another youngster in 24-year-old Dayonn Harris possibly poised for a breakout, and midfield stalwarts Lewis Hilton, Sebastian Dalgaard, Laurence Wyke and Yann Ekra all in the fold, the Rowdies appear to have few concerns offensively. There are, however, two big holes to fill on defense, where Tampa Bay was tops in the league. Forrest Lasso, the USL Defender of the Year the past two seasons, signed with GFI Sundsvall in Sweden. And goalkeeper Evan Louro, who tore his ACL while celebrating the conference championship win, is a free agent while rehabbing his knee. Two-year starters for Tampa Bay, Aaron Guillen and Jordan Scarlett, are back, and Connor Antley can play defensive midfield, but the Rowdies signed D Timmy Mehl, 26, away from Loudon United. And just Friday the team officially announced that Robert Castellanos, who spent four seasons in the USL before Nashville SC signed him, will be on loan from the MLS squad. Nashville played a three-man backline mirroring the Rowdies, and Castellanos could slot in Lasso’s center spot. Goalkeeping will be handled by either CJ Cochran, who has more than 100 professional appearances and made 31 starts (nine shutouts) for Oklahoma City last season, or Raiko Arozarena, the brother of Rays outfielder Randy Arozarena. Tampa Bay went 3-1-1 in the preseason. “We’re looking good,” Guenzatti said. “We’re still the same Rowdies as the last two or three years, so you’re going to see a lot of the same, but a lot of new faces as well so it’s going to be exciting.” Sunday’s opponent lost several of its top scorers but will no doubt be juiced for the first regular-season match in its new venue. Legion FC will play at Protective Stadium, a 45,000-seat arena that opened last year as the new home for University of Alabama-Birmingham football.