TAMPA — Despite the Lightning’s salary cap constraints and diminished stock of trade chips, general manager Julien BriseBois still pulled off a deal ahead of Monday’s trade deadline that will boost Tampa Bay’s hopes of winning a third straight Stanley Cup. The Lightning acquired forward Brandon Hagel from the Blackhawks on Friday, giving them additional scoring power and position flexibility. Hagel has 21 goals and 16 assists in 55 games in his second full NHL season, can player center or either wing spot, and contributed on both special teams units with the Blackhawks. The Lightning sent first-round draft picks in 2023 and 2024 to Chicago and homegrown rookie forwards Boris Katchouk and Taylor Raddysh — which helps free up cap space — in the deal. The Lightning also acquired fourth-round picks for 2022 and 2024, supplementing their inventory of later-round selections. Hagel, in the first year of a three-year contract, is making $1.5 million this season, as well as the next two. Katchouk and Raddysh combine for a $1.516 million cap hit, making this essentially a cash-in, cash-out move. Hagel can be a restricted free agent at the end of his deal. “We’re adding a 23-year-old player that is super competitive, can play in all situations, can play with all different types of players,” BriseBois said. “We got to see him play a lot last season when Chicago was in our division, and we noticed how competitive he is and also the consistency in his effort every shift. We’ve seen the growth in his play this year and his improved performance.” BriseBois said Hagel was expected to make his Lightning debut tonight against the Rangers at Amalie Arena. Hagel found out he was being traded following a morning skate in Chicago before the Blackhawks flew to Minnesota for a game today. He was preparing to drive to the airport when he was pulled aside by general manager Kyle Davidson. He was slated to arrive in Tampa this morning. “A little bit of a crazy day and mixed emotions — I made tons of friends and memories (in Chicago) — but that being said, I’m also excited and happy to be coming to Tampa, especially with the team they have,” Hagel said. “They have a lot of veteran guys there that know how to win and know what it takes to win, so I’m excited, too. I’m ready to learn from those guys, but at the same time, I’m ready to show what I’ve got and be a big part of this organization.” Going into the trade deadline, BriseBois tried his best to temper expectations that the Lightning would make a deal, pointing to zero cap space and roster inflexibility — every addition would have to be accompanied by a subtraction from the active roster — but said if the offer was right, he’d be willing to trade high draft picks in order to upgrade the team. “If we can do anything to increase the odds of our current team being successful and going on another magical ride, then I feel like we need to do that, and that’s why we made the decision we made,” BriseBois said Friday. Hagel has played extremely well of late, with nine goals and five assists in his last 15 games, including a hat trick Feb. 25 against New Jersey. This deal resembles the moves BriseBois made at the 2020 trade deadline when he acquired forwards Blake Coleman and Barclay Goodrow for first-round picks. Both players had one more year on their current deals and played key roles in both back-to-back Stanley Cup-winning teams. While Hagel’s high-energy, in-your-face game has drawn comparisons to Coleman’s, the Lightning are getting a player more in the mold of Yanni Gourde or Tyler Johnson: undersized free agents who scrapped their way to success. Hagel was drafted by Buffalo in 2016 in the sixth round but was never offered a contract. In 2018 the Blackhawks signed him to a free-agent deal. “I think my work ethic’s my No. 1 thing,” Hagel said. “And if that’s not there, then my skill is not going to come into play or my goal-scoring ability or whatever you want to call it. So that’s always my No. 1 rule: Come into the game giving your 110 percent every day.” BriseBois said that after completing the trade for Hagel, the Lighting are finished making moves before Monday’s 3 p.m. deadline. Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.