PALM BEACH — Having spent more than a decade keeping a finger on Tom Brady’s pulse, Josh McDaniels was hardly taken aback when the seven-time Super Bowl champion sent a palpitation across the NFL with his recent un-retirement. “Not surprised,” the new Raiders coach said during a brief media session Monday morning at the dawn of the annual NFL meetings. “Knowing him like I do, how competitive he is, if he can still do it at a high level and he can still compete to win championships, it doesn’t shock me that he came back.” The sentiment of McDaniels, who spent 13 seasons as Brady’s offensive coordinator and/or position coach in New England, was shared by at least one other peer Monday. Veteran Chiefs coach Andy Reid, winless against Brady in three postseason meetings, including Super Bowl 55, said he was “happy” for Brady, who announced his return for a 23rd NFL season March 13. “The son of a gun is in great shape,” Reid said. “He’s in better shape than half the guys playing right now. ... I’m happy for him, wish him the best of luck, he’s going to do great. We all wish when we were 45 we looked like that.” McDaniels was in Brady’s position room (either as QBs coach or coordinator) for four of the Patriots’ six Super Bowl titles during their mesmerizing two-decade run of dominance. Three of those came during McDaniels’ second stint as offensive coordinator (2012-2019). “Whatever he chooses to do, he deserves the opportunity to pick and choose what he wants to do and how he wants to do it,” McDaniels said. “I just think I see a guy that’s playing at an extremely high level, super competitive, and at this age, nobody’s really done this before. So to see him playing at that level and walk away, I think all of us would’ve been a little sad next year on opening day had that been the case. As for Bill Belichick, Brady’s boss for 20 seasons in New England, he’s — shall we say — on to Cincinnati. “You’ll have to ask Tom about all that,” he said. Bucs to Nashville for preseason Titans coach Mike Vrabel announced Monday his team will host the Bucs and Cardinals for separate joint practice sessions this summer, virtually assuring a Bucs-Titans preseason game in Nashville. Tennessee practiced a couple of days against the Bucs last August at AdventHealth Training Center before its 34-3 preseason rout of Tampa Bay on Aug. 21 at Raymond James Stadium. Fake news alert Seated a table away from Belichick, new Dolphins coach Mike McDaniel flatly denied a recent Boston-based report that his team was attempting to acquire Brady via a seismic trade. “Tom Brady the Super Bowl winner? No, that has not been in the conversation at all,” said McDaniel, hired by the Dolphins early last month after five seasons as an assistant in San Francisco. “I think that’s what you call fake news.” Lovie’s third rodeo Only 15 months ago, Lovie Smith was wrapping up his fifth consecutive losing season at the University of Illinois with a 56-21 loss at Penn State. On Monday, he was back at the pinnacle of his profession, holding court with the AFC’s 15 other head coaches in a ballroom of an oceanside resort. “I’ve been dreaming for a long period of time in my life where I came from,” Smith said Monday at the NFL meetings. “Good things have happened to me in the coaching profession.” Seven years after the conclusion of his abysmal two-season tenure in Tampa Bay (8-24 record), Smith is an NFL head coach for a third time, one of only three current coaches (including Pete Carroll and Bruce Arians) to coach three different franchises. The Texans essentially promoted him after one season as their defensive coordinator to replace David Culley. Houston (4-13) finished 31st in the league last season in yards allowed per game (384.4) and 27th in points surrendered per contest (26.6). But they won consecutive games down the stretch and nearly rallied against eventual AFC top seed Tennessee before losing 28-25 in the regular season finale. “You keep working hard, somebody’s always watching what you’re doing,” said Smith, who turns 64 in May. “You’re always interviewing; any time you’re working you’re really interviewing with someone. ... If it had not happened, I would’ve been okay just coaching football, and I had a great time being the defensive coordinator last year. But again, there’s 32 of these. To have an opportunity to lead three franchises — doesn’t happen very often — you’re blessed.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.