INDIANAPOLIS — Quarterback is the biggest need for the Bucs this offseason, but protecting the passer became an even bigger problem with the unexpected retirement of Pro Bowl guard Ali Marpet on Sunday. Center Ryan Jensen and guard Alex Cappa already were set to become unrestricted free agents. If both leave, tackles Donovan Smith and Tristan Wirfs would be the only returning starters on the offensive line. When you look at the landscape of quarterbacks on the Bucs’ wish list, at least two of them — the Seahawks’ Russell Wilson and the Texans’ Deshaun Watson — have no-trade clauses. Evan if they would become available, it’s unlikely either would agree to be sent to a team that has so many holes to plug on the line. The Bucs own the 27th overall pick in the draft, and the thought was that they may use it to address other needs, at wide receiver or tight end. Instead, it becomes almost paramount that the Bucs re-sign either Jensen or Cappa, or both at at least an estimated $10 million per year. The Bucs also would like to re-sign backup guard Aaron Stinnie, who started all three playoff games during the Bucs’ Super Bowl run in the 2020 season after Cappa broke his arm. Some mock drafts have the Bucs selecting Boston College guard Zion Johnson. Coach Bruce Arians admitted he was surprised at Marpet’s decision to retire at age 28 with more than $20 million remaining on his contract but wishes him well. So, if quarterback is the biggest concern, offensive line is 1A. “It changes a lot of things as far as where we’re headed in free agency, with Ryan and (Cappa) and (Stinnie),” Arians said. “Obviously, for us, offensive line is huge. It’s prominent. It’s paramount. We’ve got to dive into more guys here than we probably would have.” The Bucs used a third-round pick on Notre Dame offensive lineman Robert Hainsey in last year’s draft and moved him to center. But he played only 31 offensive snaps last season (5 percent) and is virtually a rookie. “(Jensen) has been the center pivot of our offense,” general manager Jason Licht said Tuesday. “We signed him when we did (in 2018) to elevate and set the tone of the toughness of the team, and he’s definitely done that. I think for me it’s a definite priority to continue that.” Whereas the Bucs may have been comfortable allowing either Jensen or Cappa to sign elsewhere and backfill with either Stinnie or Hainsey, Marpet’s retirement makes that more problematic. Continuity on the offensive line is sometimes a luxury in the NFL, but it’s one of the biggest reasons the Bucs have won 29 games, including a Super Bowl, over the past two seasons. Smith and Wirfs have benefited from working with the same guards over the past several years, and too much turnover could hinder their performance. When Wirfs went out with an ankle injury while Jensen and backup tackle Josh Wells played hurt in the Bucs’ loss to the Rams in a division playoff game last season, quarterback Tom Brady was hit 17 times. Arians said, noting the value of the Bucs re-signing their free agents, said, “Donnie’s (Smith) not going to feel like he’s out there with a new guy.” Marpet was everything the Bucs wanted in an offensive lineman: tough, dependable, versatile. He started at guard and center. “We can’t replace the player, but if we can get back Ryan and Alex and Stinnie, they all played together,” Arians said. “Nick Leverette plays. So we went through seven or eight offensive linemen last year. Those five guys were iron men for most of the year until January. But yeah, I think we’re fine there.” Licht hates to use the term “rebuild” because it overlooks some of the core starters that are returning in 2022. But the Bucs suddenly have too many holes on offense. Receiver Chris Godwin is coming off an ACL injury and can be a free agent. Running backs Leonard Fournette and Ronald Jones will hit the open market, leaving Ke’Shawn Vaughn as the only back under contract. And perhaps there will be no Rob Gronkowski or O.J. Howard at tight end. This isn’t the same collection of offensive stars that attracted Brady to Tampa Bay two years ago. Marpet’s retirement could have a bigger impact on the Bucs in 2022 than anybody can predict. “It starts up front, and you always want to have a strong offensive line,” Arians said. “And I think our offensive line is a major key to our success, winning the Super Bowl and having a really good record this year. We want to continue to build that offensive line or retain the players that we have on that offensive line to continue that position group being strong, and we’ll just have to see how it goes. “Sometimes what you want to do and what happens are two different things, but we definitely ideally would like to keep it moving forward.” Arians: NFL has to improve minority-coach hiring Arians was sure the Bucs would lose offensive coordinator Byron Leftwich or defensive coordinator Todd Bowles this offseason, believing one or both would be hired as a head coach. “I really thought they were both gone,” Arians said. “Part of me is selfish and happy they’re back. But I want them both to be head coaches more so than me being comfortable. And it’s going to happen. They’re too good for it not to happen.” Arians also commented on the NFL’s record of hiring minority head coaches. Leftwich and Bowles are Black. “I’ve been on these committees now for 10 years. We’ve made better rules, better progress, but it’s not good enough,” he said. “When those two guys are not head coaches after the last two seasons, I think something is wrong.” Contact Rick Stroud at rstroud@tampabay.com. Follow @NFLSTROUD. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.