TAMPA — The Lightning didn’t make things easy for Andrei Vasilevskiy on Tuesday night against the Senators. Coming off an outdoor win in Nashville, Tampa Bay’s coaching staff knew a slow start against a pesky Ottawa team at Amalie Arena could put the Lightning in a rut. And it did. Before the game was four minutes old, the Lightning trailed by two, allowing goals on Ottawa’s first two shots. After the second goal, the Lightning were more aggressive on the puck, keeping it on the move in an effort to prevent further Senators scoring chances. But it wasn’t just the puck movement that helped Tampa Bay rally for a 5-2 win. It also was the work of its goaltender. " ‘Vasy’ made a couple of massive saves or that could have been 3-zip,” forward Brayden Point said. “That definitely changes our momentum, how we’re feeling on the bench.” On Ottawa’s third shot of the night, forward Nick Paul skated through the neutral zone and shuffled the puck off to his left. It rebounded off the wall toward forward Connor Brown, who quickly sent a shot toward the Lightning net. Vasilevskiy snagged the puck before Ottawa could make another attempt. It was one of 25 straight shots Vasilevskiy stopped, 12 coming in the third period alone. “You’ve got to give Vasy some credit,” coach Jon Cooper said. “He gives up two, and then we go 4-on-4 and he makes a couple of big-time saves.” With the Lightning trailing 5-1 in shots just over seven minutes into the game, forward Nikita Kucherov scored the first of five unanswered Tampa Bay goals. Not long afterward, Lightning forward Corey Perry and Senators forward Brady Tkachuk took matching penalties for roughing, setting up two minutes of 4-on-4 play. With about 30 seconds left on the penalties, the Senators moved the puck into the Lightning zone. They worked the puck out of the corner and set up a couple of chances that could have put Tampa Bay back in a two-goal deficit, particularly when Brown centered a pass to open defenseman Nick Holden in the low slot. Holden’s shot went wide, but Ottawa got the puck behind the net. Brown slipped it into the slot to Paul, who got off a quick shot. “We go down (3-1) there, who knows how that game goes?” Cooper said. “(Vasilevskiy) keeps us at a (2-1) game, makes it a little more manageable for us to come back.” Point scored on the Lightning’s second shot back at full strength to make it 2-2 at the end of the first period. Tampa Bay’s offense took things from there, with the other goals coming from Steven Stamkos, Perry and defenseman Mikhail Sergachev. Slow starts have been a trend for the Lightning the past few weeks. They have allowed the opening goal in six of their past 10 games. Nevertheless, they have found ways to win, losing just twice in that stretch (once in a shootout). The starts are something the Lightning want to fix. Perry attributed Tuesday’s comeback to the “big boys” stepping up and making plays. He also gave credit to his goaltender.” “Vasy made some big saves in that 4-on-4 and kept us in it,” Perry said. “We don’t like starting like that. It’s not ideal, but you have to deal with it and deal with it the right way.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.