The former Sears department store at the Citrus Park Town Center is getting a makeover. The department store space will become Elev8 Fun, a family entertainment center with go-karts, a retro arcade, laser tag, mini golf, a kid zone, e-sports, bowling, plus a restaurant and bar, said PrimeTime Amusements owner David Goldfarb. It’s set to open by the end of the year — if there aren’t delays from construction and supply chain issues, he said. “We thought that Tampa is really missing a really good entertainment venue for such a big market,” Goldfarb said. “I mean you have facilities here, but not at the scale that we’re doing it.” The restaurant inside will feature American favorites on the menu “typical to a TGI Fridays” like hamburgers, chicken wings, pizza, salads and vegetarian options. PrimeTime Amusements, based in South Florida, bought the 128,000-square-foot space in December 2019 for $5.5 million from a company tied to former Sears CEO Eddie Lampert, according to property records. The Sears store closed in 2018. Sears spaces have been redeveloped across Tampa Bay in recent years. At Countryside Mall, the former department store space is now home to a Whole Foods Market. At Tyrone Square in St. Petersburg, the Sears was redeveloped to make way for a Dick’s Sporting Goods store and a Lucky’s Market grocery store (which has since closed). In 2020, the last Sears in Tampa was demolished for a redevelopment of the University Mall. The Citrus Park Town Center in west Hillsborough County was formerly known as Westfield Citrus Park, but Westfield gave back ownership of the shopping center including Countryside Mall when they defaulted on a multimillion-dollar loan. The lenders filed a lawsuit at the end of 2020 and took over the two suburban malls. Goldfarb said malls need to adapt in order to survive and compete against e-commerce platforms like Amazon. His answer to bringing people back to the shopping centers is with entertainment centers. Goldfarb also created Ft. Lauderdale’s Xtreme Action Park, an entertainment center with similar offerings, including a ropes course. Another Elev8 Fun opened recently in Sanford’s Seminole Towne Center. He expects the Elev8 opening in Tampa Bay to draw more traffic to the Citrus Park mall. Goldfarb said he prefers a mall atmosphere because of the larger square footage spaces that are usually available. It can be difficult to find a space big enough in other commercial locations. “We call ourselves kind of an eight-dimensional facility. And what I mean by that is, is we try to get approximately eight different attractions under one roof,” Goldfarb said. PrimeTime Amusements plans to open between 12 to 15 locations across the state of Florida. Goldfarb said he’s purchasing a third site in Jensen Beach and is targeting two more department stores spaces for next year.