KENNETH CITY — Lazara Aneiro Rodriguez didn’t hear any alarms when she was awoken from her sleep Wednesday night at Ashford Bayside Apartment Homes — only a loud knocking. Neither did several other residents who spoke with the Tampa Bay Times on Thursday. A fire at one of the buildings in the apartment complex damaged at least four units and forced about 22 families out of their homes while the damage is assessed, authorities said. Fire officials received a call around 11:01 p.m. Wednesday, said Pinellas Park Fire Department emergency management coordinator Suzanne Boisvert. Crews from the Pinellas Park Fire Department, Lealman Fire District and St. Petersburg Fire Rescue responded to the fire, which was on the third floor of building E, she said. About four or five of the building’s 27 units were directly affected by the fire — including a collapsed roof in one of the apartments, Boisvert said. The fire was extinguished by 12:22 a.m. Thursday. The state fire marshal is investigating the cause, Boisvert said. One person was treated for smoke inhalation, but there were no other injuries reported, according to fire officials, who turned the building over to property management around 11:30 a.m. Thursday. Multiple residents told the Tampa Bay Times that they did not hear any fire alarms after the fire broke out. A neighbor told Bay News 9 that he saw flames after hearing glass shattering and began going door-to-door to wake his neighbors, knocking and shouting that there was a fire. Management could not be immediately reached by phone Thursday. Fox News 13 reported that the building may be a total loss. Residents said they had heard that those who lost their homes in the fire might be able to relocate to vacant units within the apartment complex, but many said Thursday afternoon that they were unsure about where they would live. American Red Cross spokesperson Rachel Nelson said the organization was alerted early Thursday morning about the fire. Six volunteers provided supplies and financial assistance to the nearly 50 tenants impacted by the fire. Tenants who called the organization after that to say they are in need of assistance will be provided services virtually, Nelson said. Those with urgent health needs will be connected with caseworkers, she said. Rodriguez said the Red Cross gave her and her husband, Fidel Pons, a prepaid debit card, and they decided to use the money provided on the card to buy food. They needed the money to cover wages they lost because they weren’t able to go to their factory jobs Thursday due to the fire, Rodriguez said. “Other people go to their relatives’ houses,” Rodriguez said in Spanish. But, she said, she doesn’t have any extended family here. “They’re my family,” she said, standing near the cars where she had spent the night with her husband, their two kids and their Chihuahuas. “That’s why I have no other place to go.” By the time Greg Morse, 32, fled his apartment on the second floor of building E, he said flames had engulfed the front staircase and he had to take the back staircase. Morse said he didn’t hear any alarms until fire crews had arrived. When Morse was allowed back into the building around 4:30 a.m., the unit he shared with his roommate, 34-year-old Justin Holland, had been completely flooded, he said. Based on watermarks in the apartment, Morse estimates the apartment had flooded up to the height of his knees at one point. Outside the building, his car had completely been covered in tar from the fire, he said. He later found out it would take $7,000 to fix, Morse said. Holland — who was at work at a distribution center when the fire happened — said he spent the day communicating with insurance. Morse said he planned to go buy some new clothes. The two had moved into the apartment complex last July, after Morse got out of the military, and Morse said he was planning to buy a house where the two could live after their lease ended. Now, he’s not sure what his next move will be. “Our plan just got burned down a little bit,” Morse said. “I’m gonna try to get some sleep and then decide,” he added. Tony Pate, who lives with his girlfriend, her two kids and two grandkids, said the family just moved into building E last month. The move cost them $3,000 and they don’t have anything left to relocate to a new place, the 53-year-old said. Their apartment was not damaged, he said, but as of Thursday afternoon he wasn’t sure if the damage to the building would mean they’d have to move. “All the money we had went into that place,” said Pate, who works as a cook. “We’re stuck between a rock and a hard place.” Times staff members Josh Fiallo and Chris Urso contributed to this story.