Hardship and trouble have cast twin shadows on our world. Deep in our souls, we know things are out of place. From astonishment over the senseless war in Ukraine and a wearying pandemic, to pain at the gas pump and disbelief in the grocery aisle, our lives and our world can’t seem to catch a break. And because of it, many are losing hope for the future. And why not? Every part of the world seems broken, shaken and dysfunctional. Beyond our weariness, many are suffering a crisis of confidence — in others, in our leaders, in ourselves. That’s actually the opposite of what we really need to do, which is keep the faith in our future and in one another. Humanity has suffered through the deepest and most trying of times. We have endured the cruelest of wars, wicked leaders, deadly pandemics and unrelenting famines. Over time, we have witnessed every unbearable cruelty. Coping with turmoil and hardship makes us human. We can value hardship because the cost we bear is what makes something valuable. These costs do not suppress our human spirit — they make us soar. After the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, Americans were polled and overwhelmingly, in spite of the attacks, believed that the best things for our nation was still ahead. Consider the human courage to which we bear eyewitness in Ukraine. Just days ago, it was a foregone conclusion that Russia would overrun this relatively small peaceful nation. Ukraine’s fate seemed sealed before an enemy 10 times its strength. But Russia’s inhumanity galvanized Ukraine to resist the tyranny of the invader. Together, the acts of courage and the soaring human spirit have helped to demoralize Russia’s military and its leaders. From a young president taking up arms to be with his nation’s defenders to an elderly Ukrainian couple shaming away Russian occupiers trespassing at their home, these tests and difficulties demonstrate the resilience of the human spirit in all of us. No matter what we face today, we can overcome it. History reminds us; today reminds us. No matter the challenges, when those who are right and on the side of good unify, then good will always triumph over evil. In the 1980s, conditions in America were like today. Russia (as the Soviet Union) was threatening the world, inflation was high, unemployment was soaring, and everything seemed upside down. President Ronald Reagan encouraged, “It’s morning in America.” He knew we could not give up. The price of freedom. The sacrifice for victory. Nothing of great value comes without giving something up. A generation before Reagan, President John F. Kennedy said, “We do these things not because they are easy, but because they are hard.” Today, our nation and our world are under strain. But the value we will gain by pushing beyond these great difficulties will be the better future we all create together — if we keep faith in each other. David Stuckenberg is chairman of the American Leadership & Policy Foundation and a former national security and peacekeeping advisor to the White House, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and U.S. State Department. He earned his doctorate at King’s College London and an MPS at George Washington University.