PORT CHARLOTTE — Baseball’s owners and players agreed — finally — to play ball this season, working through contentious negotiations and several deadlines to come to terms Thursday afternoon on a new labor deal. The lockout that had frozen the sport since Dec. 2 was lifted by dinner time, with spring training camps across Florida and Arizona to open by Sunday, exhibition games to start March 18 with a revised regional schedule, and the regular season to begin April 7-8, a week later than first planned. And despite Major League Baseball previously announcing that each team’s first four series had been wiped off the schedule, a full 162-game season will be played, with some games restored and others rescheduled. The Rays are set to begin regular-season play April 8 in their originally scheduled home opener, hosting the Orioles and then the A’s in a seven-game homestand. Previously scheduled series at Boston and Toronto will be made up, either on off days, as part of doubleheaders or tacked on to the end of the season. “I am genuinely thrilled to be able to say that Major League Baseball is back and we’re going to play 162 games,” commissioner Rob Manfred said in New York. “I do want to start by apologizing to our fans. I know the last few months have been difficult, there was a lot of uncertainty. … Sort of the way the process of collective bargaining works sometimes. But I do apologize for it.” The five-year agreement includes numerous changes. Most notable to fans are expansion of the playoff field from 10 to 12 teams by adding a third wild card in each league, implementation of the designated hitter rule in the National League and addition of advertisements on jerseys and batting helmets. Several changes funneled more money to younger players, such as creation of a $50 million bonus pool to be divided among 100 players not yet eligible for arbitration and increases to the minimum salary, which goes from $570,500 last season to $700,000 and increased $20,000 annually. Other changes had to do with competitive balance, such as a lottery to determine the draft order among the six teams with the worst records and limited increases to thresholds on the Competitive Balance Tax, which is the primary mechanism to keep big-market teams from spending excessively on payroll. There also were changes to procedures, such as limiting the number of times a player can be optioned during a season to five, and making it easier to change playing rules in future seasons. “There were a lot of ups and downs during the negotiation process, but we achieved getting younger players paid more, higher CBT (limits), and put new rules in place to increase competition,” Rays player representative Tyler Glasnow said. “Everyone’s excited. Guys can’t wait to get back together and start spring. We’re as happy as the fans are to be playing 162.” The deal came together the day after talks broke off on what MLB said was the last day to save a full season. But the sides kept talking Wednesday night and Thursday morning, agreeing to table deciding on implementing an international draft (and dropping draft-pick compensation for free-agent signings in return). The owners then made a comprehensive proposal with some further financial concessions. The union executive board, comprised mostly of higher-paid veterans, rejected the offer 8-0. But teams, through their player reps, voted in favor of it, 26-4, and it passed 26-12. Owners then ratified the deal 30-0, ending the 99-day lockout and allowing transactions, such as signings and trades, to restart. “Our union endured the second-longest work stoppage in its history to achieve significant progress in key areas that will improve not just current players’ rights and benefits, but those of generations to come,” union chief Tony Clark said. “Players remained engaged and unified from beginning to end, and in the process re-energized our fraternity.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.