OLDSMAR — Two practices in August showed Mitchell High hockey coach Dave Beaudin that his group had the potential to do something special this season. “I knew we had the nucleus of something that could last the season,” said Beaudin, 57, “(that) we could build on.” After winning its sixth state title earlier this month, Mitchell will compete at the USA Hockey National Championships this weekend in Dallas, Texas. Of the 18 teams in the High School Division II field, Mitchell is the lone representative from Florida. “I think these kids worked hard all season,” Beaudin said Monday. “... We have to be stewards or ambassadors of the league, so that’s the most exciting part. And, you know, you may not ever have this chance again. Not a lot of teams go back-to-back; it’s hard. The Lightning can do it, but we’re a Tampa high school, so we’re happy where we are.” Mitchell will be seeking its second national championship after first winning the tournament in 2016. Nathan Smith, a 2018 draft pick of the NHL’s Winnipeg Jets whose rights on Monday were traded to the Arizona Coyotes, was a junior on that team. Though Mitchell, one of 22 varsity programs in the Lightning High School Hockey League (LHSHL), didn’t make it to the league’s championship match this season, it defeated Steinbrenner in the state title game, enabling it to advance to nationals. Mitchell went 18-3-1 in the regular season before falling to Steinbrenner in a 10-round shootout in the semifinal round of the LHSHL playoffs, which Newsome won. But since it is a combined team with Sunlake, Mitchell was one of six Tier II schools to qualify for the state playoffs. At the Statewide Amateur Hockey of Florida (SAHOF) Championships in Orlando, Mitchell went 2-1 in pool play to advance to the semifinal round. The Mustangs went on to defeat Durant and Steinbrenner to win the state title. Senior captain Kevin Rossello, a forward, led Mitchell with 18 goals during the regular season. His 27 points were second to fellow senior Jeremy Henk (31). The rest of the senior group, eight in all, kept the team on track, calling each other out when necessary and making sure everyone was being held accountable. Beaudin said the team’s commitment to defense and strong goaltending kept it in contention for bigger goals. Senior goalie Jax Fontana allowed only one goal while playing 10 periods over five state tournament games. Mitchell will open national tournament play Thursday at 4 p.m. against Bishop Canevin in the first of three pool-play games. The top eight teams (decided by points) will advance to the quarterfinals on Sunday morning, with the semifinals to be played that night. The national championship will be determined Monday at 10:30 a.m. “The bar is as high as it can be,” said Beaudin, who’s coaching his third season at Mitchell. “It’s just how we manage the first three games, and then we’ll strategize the rest. It’s a great honor to play.” Sunlake junior Delaney Zerfass, the only girl on Mitchell’s team, knows what it’s like to stand out on the ice. This weekend will be no different for her teammates, with the Mustangs being the only team from the Sunshine State in the field. “It’s crazy, because all of these teams are from Minnesota and Michigan, and then there’s a team from Florida,” said Zerfass, 16, of Odessa, who plays defense. “Everyone at the rink is like, ‘Oh my gosh, there’s a team from Florida here.’” The team has grown closer over the course of the season, Zerfass said, which has helped with its chemistry. She believes it could be a key to playing well this weekend. Coaches have noticed the players’ camaraderie, too. “The guys just believed in themselves every week,” Beaudin said. “That’s all it was.” What to know Schedule: Pool play — Thursday vs. Bishop Canevin (Pa.), 4 p.m.; Friday vs. Ackson Hole Moose (N.Y.), 1 p.m.; Saturday vs. Frisco West (Texas), 1 p.m. Quarterfinals and finals — Sunday. Finals — Monday, 10:30 a.m. How to watch: Hockeytv.com (subscription required) Full schedule: https://nationals.usahockey.com/2022highschooldivisionii Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari.