TAMPA — His childhood dreams have manifested themselves, in dizzying sequence. In the span of roughly 13 months, Chris Godwin has won a Super Bowl, married his high school sweetheart and earned a second NFL contract. “For me to be a child and kind of see these things and kind of dream these things and for all them to come to fruition, it’s pretty surreal,” the 26-year-old Bucs receiver said. “I’m still processing.” The more sobering realities, however, can wait. Speaking Monday to reporters inside AdventHealth Training Center, Godwin said he’s simply not ready to process — or ponder or predict — when he’ll next suit up in a game for the team that signed him to a three-year deal for a reported $60 million. “I don’t have (a timetable) in mind quite yet,” said Godwin, who was lost for the rest of the 2021 season after tearing his right ACL and spraining the MCL in a 9-0 loss to the Saints on Dec. 19. “Thankfully, this is my only time that I’ve gone through this, so I’m not really sure what those kind of timelines look like. ... It’s a long process, and I feel like when you start projecting real far into the future, it can be a bit daunting.” Saying he’s “pleased with the (rehab) process so far,” Godwin arrived at his joint news conference with general manager Jason Licht with no crutches and nary a limp. While the length of ACL recoveries clearly are dependent on a number of variables, the general timetable for NFL players is eight or nine months, which would make Godwin iffy for the regular season opener. “Obviously, it’s a long one, so can’t really project too far into the future,” said Godwin, who was joined Monday by his wife, Mariah. “So I try to take it day by day, just like I have my entire career. But I like where I’m at right now. I’m feeling confident about this season.” Not to mention steadfast in his loyalty to the organization that selected him in the third round a half-decade ago. The Bucs’ willingness to craft a long-term deal with Godwin (after initially applying the franchise tag to him a second consecutive season) despite his knee injury reinforced a level of trust between player and franchise already forged by five solid seasons. “He’s been a role model to not just a lot of the fan base and kids, my kids, but just the way that he works, the person that he is, that’s the kind of player that we want to bring in,” Licht said. “And we use him as an example when we talk about players in the draft. Chris is one of those guys that we want to keep bringing players in like him.” Routinely lauded for his blocking chops — and willingness to brandish them — Godwin appeared poised to break Keyshawn Johnson’s single-season franchise receptions record (106) upon being injured. His 98 catches still led the team in 2021, and his 1,103 yards marked his second 1,000-yard season in three years. “They know that I’m about my business and that I’m going to do whatever I can to help the team win,” Godwin said. “And more than anything, I want to be out there with my guys. ... I think there is a level of trust going both ways and a level of respect, so I’m glad we were able to get the deal done.” Negotiating the rehab process is another matter, even as a fan base nervously awaits each update. “I’m trying to keep my positivity,” Godwin said, “trying to enjoy where I’m at now, and enjoy the little victories.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.