PORT CHARLOTTE — So much has changed in Wander Franco’s world since he sat in the Rays’ spring clubhouse last March. He made it to the majors, debuting in late June at age 20. He lived up to the hype, starring for the Rays in all phases after a two-year run as the game’s top prospect and finishing third in the American League Rookie of the Year voting despite playing only 70 games. And he got paid, quite lavishly, signing a team-record contract for a guaranteed $182 million over 11 years and up to $223 million over 12. There are some visible signs of his sudden success. Franco added the June 22, 2021, date of his first big-league game under the MLB logo already inked on the left side of his neck, and a triad of crosses on the right. And while he hasn’t yet expanded his fleet of luxury vehicles (Lamborghini, Rolls-Royce Cullinan SUV, Mercedes AMG GLE 53 with a diamond steering wheel), he did pick up some new bling. For Monday’s first full spring workout, he sported a hefty white gold and diamond medallion with his last name and No. 5 in Rays blue. But for all that is different, Franco insisted he isn’t. “I know a lot of things have changed in this last year,” he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro, “but I like to think I’m in the same place as I was last year mentally.” For all the success Franco had on the field, highlighted by a 43-game on-base streak, he said he plans to stick with the pre-game routines he developed last year and to keep working hard to get better. For all the money Franco has coming, he said his biggest priorities are remaining a good teammate (for example, introducing himself Monday to the non-roster camp invites) and taking care of his family back in the Dominican Republic, including a 3-year-old son, saying specifically that “they’re going to be well fed.” (He did acknowledge that after the contract he suddenly seems to have more “friends” looking for a handout: “We know that happens. There are some people that come out of nowhere after situations like that.”) For all the pressure seemingly on Franco, now 21, to live up to the numbers on his stat sheet and contract, “I’m just out there to play baseball normally like I know how to play.” And for all of Franco’s predictable answers, his Rays bosses are confident his actions will parrot his words. “He’s a really level-headed guy,” manager Kevin Cash said. “Very driven. Very motivated to be a good player, wants to help us win. He’s always had something on his back. He’s removed himself from prospect status, now he’s got the biggest contract. I think he’s going to be fine.” So does third-base/infield coach Rodney Linares, who spends his offseason in the Dominican and is the closest to Franco of the big-league staff. Linares cites the hard work Franco did, at shortstop and the plate, after getting to the majors. “He came out and worked,” Linares said. “I kept telling him, everywhere he played before getting to the big leagues, he was the best player out there. Now you’re in the big leagues, everybody’s good up here. But to his credit, he took it into stride, and he’s really mature for his age. “Just the way he went about his business, especially seeing what he could do in the playoffs in that atmosphere. For me, that was the most special thing to see. The way he performed in the playoffs, that told us a lot. The sky’s the limit. I don’t think anything fazes that kid. That’s good. Because he’s confident. He’s cocky, too.” Linares also points to the perspective Franco has. “He’s got a good support system (in the Dominican Republic),” he said. “Mom and dad are there. His brothers played the game. His uncles (Erick and Willy Aybar, an ex-Ray) were in the big leagues, one of his uncles (Erick) made decent money. So he’s seen it. He’s seen the flashy cars, he’s seen the whole thing. … “Hopefully he can keep helping people the way that he does. I talked to him a lot through the whole (contract) process, and I kept telling him you’re talking about generational wealth. … You can help the country but you can really help your community and make an impact. “I think he’s going to be fine. With all the hype that he came up to the big leagues, he performed that way. Now he got the big contract. We all saw what he could do, and we’re just like, let’s see the encore. Let’s see what he can do next.” When the lockout ended Thursday, Linares sent Franco a voice memo suggesting a 30-homer, 30-steal season as a goal. Franco responded, shall we say colorfully, that he agreed and can’t wait to get going, “I was like, all right, he’s excited. So I’m excited for him,” Linares said. “I’m excited for the whole team, but I’m really excited to see his encore year. I think it’s going to be special.” That wouldn’t be anything new. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.