In recent days, hundreds have gathered around the Tampa Bay area to carry signs and show support for Ukraine. But how can you show more concrete support in the form of time or donations? Here are some ideas. St. Petersburg’s Epiphany of Our Lord Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church recently posted a link with resources to help Ukraine at linktr.ee/Natalia_S. It included links to organizations that are facilitating donations and fundraising, such as the Ukrainian Youth Organization, the UN Refugee Agency that helps displaced Ukrainians and ucca.org, the Ukrainian Congress Committee of American, which is fundraising for humanitarian aid. There are also resources for action and activism, including how to contact Congress or petition NATO, and an open call for artists to support the Ukrainian army. “At this time the speed of execution is more important than the quality of the art work, as our soldiers need our help ASAP,” said a post on the site calling for work to be sent to contact@holywater.tech. Proceeds from the art will support the country‘s army. Nonprofits such as Revived Soldiers Ukraine drew support over the weekend with charity concerts in St. Petersburg and North Port, Fla., to raise money for wounded Ukrainian soldiers. Donations can be made at rsukraine.org. The Ukrainian National Women’s League of America is asking the general public to give humanitarian aid by visiting unwla.org/#donate. If refugees end up making their way to the U.S., nonprofits like Radiant Hands in Tampa expect to be called on to help provide support and rental assistance. The nonprofit’s director Ghadir Kassab said they currently have their hands full with Afghan refugees, distributing 400 boxes of food every two weeks in Tampa alone. “The biggest hurdle is the language barrier,” Kassab said. “If that need should arise, it will be a call to the local Ukrainians to say, ‘We are here to help.’ " You can apply to volunteer with Radiant Hands or send donations to radianthands.org. Project Dynamo of Tampa is working to evacuate American citizens and NATO allies from Ukraine. Just last week, buses with about three dozen Americans left the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv for Romania, said spokesperson James Judge. Project Dynamo, which is funded by Naples-based nonprofit Liberty Aviation International Rescue, was the code name for the civilian-driven mass evacuation of Allied soldiers from the beaches of Dunkirk, France, during World War II. It is taking donations at projectdynamo.org. The money helps cover travel costs for refugees and for volunteers heading into Ukraine to help them. Money will also be used to provide safe houses for those who can’t escape. Other international organizations that are supporting Ukraine include: Doctors Without Borders, which provides medical care during humanitarian crises, still has workers in Ukraine. Funds are being raised for mass casualty kits, emergency medicine and training for local hospitals. doctorswithoutborders.org. The International Rescue Committee is collecting financial donations that aid displaced families. rescue.org. UNICEF’s emergency interventions in Ukraine include health, hygiene and education supplies, as well as working on the ground to provide emergency assistance. Donate here at unicefusa.org. Journalists at the English-language newspaper Kyiv Independent have covered the Russian invasion of Ukraine, at great risk to their families, their homes and their personal safety. The paper is soliciting donations via a GoFundMe account “Keep the Kyiv Independent going.” Donate here. Chef Jose Andrés has set up his World Central Kitchen on the ground at the Ukraine-Poland border, providing meals for families fleeing the country. wck.org. The website Charity Navigator‘s mission is to educate donors on the best charities that spend money on their mission. Its suggestions for Ukraine include: