Going into year three of a global pandemic, it was still unclear for most of us what the future of our workplaces would look like. Some companies in Tampa Bay chose to return to the office as the omicron variant waned. Others shrunk their office spaces permanently, adapting to a hybrid work model. And many still are working from home full-time, in sweatpants and with dogs in their laps. What does the future of work look like in Tampa Bay? It’s a great question. The 2022 Top Workplaces may be the most telling one yet. Each year, the Tampa Bay Times surveys employers in the region to get an understanding of what it’s like to work in a variety of industries, and from a number of companies, to come up with our annual ranking. Participation in our survey boomed this year: Nearly 36,000 employees from around Tampa Bay agreed to take part in rating their places of business. From their surveys, we selected 101 employers as Top Workplaces, including 19 companies that made the list for the first time. These employees work at highly rated nonprofits, government agencies, small businesses and large corporations. They were eager to share their experiences with us. The resounding trend that set employers apart from others was how flexible they were with employees during this challenging time. PowerChord Inc., a tech company in St. Petersburg, made working from the downtown office optional for workers going forward. “We have implemented a digital-first workforce,” said Patty Hurst, the company’s people and culture coordinator. “Employees can come into the office, or work from home. It’s their choice.” At FACTS Engineering in New Port Richey, workers returned to the office to re-energize their creative collaboration. “Some of our best ideas are born as we spend informal time together,” said Ronald McVety, president of FACTS Engineering. The company plans to expand its office space to meet the needs of their growth. “(We’re) an organization of like-minded people that take pride and ownership in a company that puts team members and their families first.” Overall, employees are expressing more positive feelings about their workplaces in 2022 compared to last year. From open-mindedness in company culture to believing in company values, we detected a jump in positivity rates in this year’s survey results. “Our retention as well as our hiring has honestly been the best it has ever been in the 23 years of us being in business,” said Angie Missonis, the vice president of human resources at PostcardMania, a marketing agency in Clearwater. “Our HR department has managed to keep the company afloat with personnel requirements and keep us growing.” But we’re not out of the woods yet. Challenges lie ahead, many of our respondents noted. Housing costs are soaring in Tampa Bay, making it more difficult to recruit and for new employees to afford to live here. Some sectors in the region, including technology, have grown at a tremendous rate, meaning there’s more competition than ever. Supply-chain issues and the rising costs of inflation have pushed some companies to get creative. “These coming months will continue to be an intense and challenging time for our industry,” said Julia Fulton, the corporate communications manager at Total Quality Logistics, a freight brokerage firm with an office in Tampa. “We do not expect the global supply chain crisis to normalize until late 2022 or into 2023. As a company, we thrive under pressure and look at every challenge as an opportunity.” Now, let us tell you about some of the Top 101 Tampa Bay Workplaces of 2022. Top Workplaces 2022: Small Category (150 or less employees) 1. Precision Garage Door of Tampa Bay Sector: Home Repair Employees: 85 Years ranked: 4 2. The HOTH Sector: Search Engine Marketing Employees: 69 Years ranked: 2 3. OWT Global Sector: Government Employees: 86 Years ranked: 1 4. Care Team Inc. Sector: Home Health Care Employees: 62 Years ranked: 3 5. Engel & Völkers Sector: Real Estate Franchising Employees: 62 Years ranked: 4 Mid-Size Category (150-499 employees) 1. PulteGroup Sector: Home Construction Employees: 188 Years ranked:4 2. Century 21 Beggins Enterprises Sector: Real Estate Employees: 391 Years ranked: 13 3. Smith & Associates Real Estate Sector: Real Estate Employees: 333 Years ranked: 7 4. Hughes Exterminators Inc. Sector: Pest Control Employees: 280 Years ranked: 2 5. Healthesystems Sector: Pharmacy and Ancillary Benefits Management Employees: 258 Years ranked: 8 Large Category (500+ employees) 1. KnowBe4 Inc. Sector: Security Awareness Training Employees: 1,034 Years ranked: 7 2. Progressive Insurance Sector: Insurance Employees: 5,455 Years ranked: 13 3. Grow Financial Federal Credit Union Sector: Financial Services & Insurance - Credit Union Employees: 553 Years ranked: 11 4: Baldwin Risk Partners Sector: Insurance & Risk Management Employees: 507 Years ranked: 10 5. Kforce Inc Sector: Staffing Services Employees: 633 Years ranked: 6 Read more about our Top Workplaces companies: It’s competitive for talent in Tampa Bay. Could more perks be coming? To keep and attract the best workers, employers are offering flexibility, benefits and hotel amenities in the office. Read more here. In office, hybrid or at home? The future of ‘the office’ in Tampa Bay. One real estate firm predicts most employees will come back to the traditional office setting in the next three to nine months. Read more here. From ‘me days’ to paid sabbaticals, this Tampa office is all about time off. Currency exchange company Wise Inc. believes a generous paid leave policy is the way to keep workers happy. Read more here. Wendover Art Group finds a niche during the pandemic. The company is in the midst of a 70,000-square-foot expansion to increase production capacity at their Largo headquarters. Read more here. Clearwater’s Sports Facilities Companies built a legacy based on strategy. The company now stands at roughly 1,500 employees nationwide, but it had humble beginnings. Read more here. The pandemic changed Tampa firm Kforce for the better, its leaders say. It was data and surveys that drove Kforce leaders to pursue an “office occasional” work model. Read more here. St. Pete dental practice has kept it in the family for more than 40 years. Klement Family Dental emphasizes a team atmosphere, offers expanded hours and works to win over patients who seriously don’t like going to the dentist. Read more here. Tampa’s Barbizon USA continues the ‘be a model or just look like one’ legacy. Today the Tampa-based Barbizon USA runs 125 Barbizon schools across the country for acting, modeling and personal development for young people. Read more here. TradeWinds Island Resort braces for a big spring break season. Staff members said the family culture of the resort has helped them through the challenges in the last two years. Read more here.