TAMPA — Tom Brady is likely to play only one more season with the Bucs. And the franchise appears to want to maximize its good fortune. For the first time in franchise history, the Bucs are requiring new season pass members to purchase tickets for two seasons. The news here is that the Bucs have season passes available. Entering the 2021 season as the defending Super Bowl champion, the team announced they were sold out. Every ticket, suite and luxury box had been purchased. With Brady retiring Feb. 1 — before changing his mind last Sunday — renewals apparently weren’t as brisk, leaving season passes available. Now those wanting to see Brady will get their chance but only if they roll the dice for 2023 as well. “Based on overwhelming demand and limited inventory, all new Season Pass Memberships for 2022 will be required to sign up for a 2-year commitment,” stated an information letter that was sent to fans on the waiting list. Season passes go on sale Wednesday at 9:25 a.m. In addition, the Bucs are attempting to limit opposing fans filling up the lower bowl of Raymond James Stadium, which they have done even during Brady’s brief tenure in Tampa Bay. Last season, Bills mafia and Cowboys fans made up a large percentage of the attendance, particularly in the lower bowl. “One  of our primary objectives as we go into each season is finding ways to  create the best homefield advantage for our team. We want to provide  loyal Buccaneers fans with the best opportunity to purchase the very limited number of seats that are available,’' Bucs Chief Operating Officer Brian Ford said in a statement. “We pride ourselves on delivering the best gameday experience in the league and our fans are  essential to that success. These additional ticket policies, as well as  providing our no-interest 24 month payment plan, have been put into  place to ensure that our true fans have the best options available for  season pass memberships.” The Bucs are requiring anyone wanting to buy tickets in the lower bowl to provide a valid Florida identification matching the name on the account and present it 48 hours before purchase. Brady is signed only through the 2022 season but the Bucs will have to renegotiate his contract and are likely to add another year for salary cap purposes. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.