CHICAGO — The stat sheet from the Lightning’s 6-3 win over the Blackhawks on Sunday night at the United Center might suggest that goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy had a pretty pedestrian performance, allowing three goals on 27 shots. What it won’t show is how Vasilevskiy saved his teammates from being on the wrong side of what could have been a rout following another sluggish start. It won’t show how Vasilevskiy fought off a team full of talented snipers until his teammates could find their footing. “That was one of the more remarkable goalie performances I’ve seen in a long time,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. The final score indicated a lopsided game, but in the first period, Tampa Bay was the team being handily outplayed. The Lightning (37-12-6) scored three goals in each of the final two periods, including three during a 32-second stretch early in the third, the fastest three goals in team history. But before then, they were lucky to be trailing by just one goal after the first period. Tampa Bay has had its share of slow starts this season, and it opened a six-game road trip by coming out of the gate sluggish and sloppy. Forward Dylan Strome’s goal less than eight minutes in put Chicago ahead, and the Lightning committed numerous turnovers, several leading to odd-man rushes. Vasilevskiy robbed forward Kirby Dach, turning away a one-timer on an open net with the shaft of his stick, then stopped Dach on a breakaway with a poke check as Dach closed in on the net. The Blackhawks also hit three posts in the first, while the Lightning struggled to establish any offense. “Some unreal saves, some highlight-reel saves,” said defenseman Victor Hedman, who scored two goals, including the winner, of Vasilevskiy’s first-period performance. “It’s on us to not give up those chances, but at the same time, we have the best goalie in the world making those unbelievable saves, and without him — especially in the first period — it would be 4-0, 5-0. “So we’ve got to wake up in the first period. I don’t know what’s going on. But we’ve got to have better starts.” It was the sixth time in the past 10 games that the Lightning fell behind to start, but Tampa Bay is 8-2-0 in those games. Hedman said the Lightning came out with more “desperation” after the first period. Cooper said the poor start was addressed in the locker room during the first intermission. “We all gathered together and talked it out a bit,” Cooper said, “and they came out and played with purpose.” Rookie Taylor Raddysh tied the score 69 seconds into the second period when he made a backhand swipe at a puck that landed behind him after Chicago forward MacKenzie Entwistle blocked defenseman Cal Foote’s wrist shot from the right point. After forward Patrick Kane’s wrister from the slot beat Vasilevskiy top corner on the glove side, Hedman responded with a rocket from the top of the circles just as forward Alex DeBrincat was exiting the penalty box at the end of a Lightning power play with 4:43 left in the period. The Lightning took their first lead 1:31 after that. Foote had a goal gift wrapped for him on a pass from forward Anthony Cirelli in front of the net. Tampa Bay then came out with a flurry in the third. Hedman’s second goal beat Marc-Andre Fleury through the five-hole 1:51 in. Thirteen seconds later, forward Corey Perry scored after a turnover in the Blackhawks zone, prompting Fleury to slam his stick against the post. Nineteen seconds after that, defenseman Mikhail Sergachev put the Lightning up 6-2 with his second goal in as many games. The Lightning’s previous three fastest goals were scored in 42 seconds by Vinny Lecavalier, Michel Ouellet and Jason Ward in an 8-4 win against the Islanders on March 11, 2008. But Vasilevskiy wasn’t done after the Lightning’s burst Sunday. After DeBrincat’s deflection in front of the net made it 6-3, Vasilevskiy made a remarkable glove save on Kane, closing off the far post on a shot that could have made it a two-goal game with more than nine minutes remaining. Cooper was asked how that save ranked among Vasilevskiy’s best. “Which one?” Cooper said. “There was a ton of them. And it wasn’t me shooting. It was a (future) Hall of Famer shooting the puck. These were big-time saves. And the goalie is there in the end to bail you out if you’ve broken down, but we broke down way too often, and it’s just something that’s happened a little bit of late in our game. “You can’t play the perfect hockey for 82 (games). But if you’re going to give some skill players like that those chances … we were just fortunate ‘Vasy’ was on.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.