Inside the newest addition to the University of South Florida Research Park, a wall along the first-floor staircase features a series of painted gray bulls, sloping upward. The detail using USF’s mascot is symbolic, said Sylvia Thomas, interim vice president for research and innovation, who is touting development of the 120,000-square-foot building as a home for companies in search of lab space and collaboration. “We want them to be inspired,” Thomas said. “We want to continue that upward trajectory for the University of South Florida and our partners.” The $42 million building — $27 million of which has been spent on the core and shell — is awaiting tenants. The remaining funds from a mix of taxable bonds and equity will be spent to custom-build lab and office spaces based on tenants’ requests. Officials at USF hope to capitalize on the building’s proximity to Moffitt Cancer Center, the James A. Haley Veterans’ Hospital, the university’s College of Engineering and a small business development center. “The new startups that are happening across Tampa Bay and all of the new firms coming into the area, well we want them to partner with us and grow their business,” Thomas said. “We want them to collaborate with our faculty researchers and hire our students for internships and work with our tech transfer office in terms of IP and trademarking and copyrights.” Allison Madden, director of USF Research Foundation Operations, said the facility offers companies space to grow — at Uptown prices. She declined to state rates, but said they would vary by length of lease and space. She’s not looking to compete with other areas of the city, she said. “I’m not trying to put a hole in a Westshore building,” she said. “We’re trying to grow the pie.” While several companies have expressed interest, they have yet to commit, Madden said. The three-story building includes a mechanical room that filters air, making it conducive to lab spaces. It will also feature public retail and dining spaces, along with a rooftop gathering area — all places where Madden and Thomas envision private researchers mingling and collaborating with university researchers. Temporary labs will offer space to work while companies’ permanent labs are built to order. The building also features large glass windows on all sides. “It’s transparency to the community,” Madden said. “While we don’t want them to see exactly what we’re doing, we want them to see there’s hubbub here, 24/7. There’s people working and they’re going to solve the world’s problems and they’re doing it here.” Madden said she sees the building as the next step in connecting the university with developing solutions beyond the theoretical. The building sits on the 112-acre tract belonging to the USF Research Park, which is about a third developed. “We’re creating the environment where brilliant people can be successful,” she said. “They have to solve the world’s problems. We just have to give them the air, the facility, they need to do it.”