INDIANAPOLIS ― It may seem that the Bucs are headed for darker days now that the greatest quarterback of all time has retired. But general manager Jason Licht said Tuesday his team will “leave the light on” for Tom Brady. “We’ll see what the future holds,” Licht said during an appearance on “Good Morning Football” Monday from the NFL scouting combine in Indianapolis. “We’ll leave the light on. We always leave the light on for a guy like Tom Brady.” Licht and coach Bruce Arians are scheduled to speak from the combine at 1:30 p.m. and 1:45. No doubt the first topic will be replacing Brady, who won 29 games in two seasons with Tampa Bay, including a Super Bowl championship, before retiring a few weeks after the Bucs lost to the Rams in a division playoff game. “Tom is a special player, special person,” Licht said. “We’ve had a great two years here. Right now, we’re trying to make our plans to move forward if that’s the case that we need to move forward on. You know, there’s a lot of things that we still have to get. “There’s a lot of time here, well, a couple weeks before free agency starts. You’ve got the draft. You’ve got post-draft. We’ve added players after the draft in the past, some significant players after the draft and after free agency. So we’re still in that process right now.” It was two years ago at the combine that Arians was asked which quarterback he would pick up the phone and said, “Tom Brady.” At the time, Licht said the Bucs had no idea they would land Brady as a free agent a few weeks later. “You know, he was in our plans,” Licht said. “We had to have door No. 1, door No. 2, door No. 3, all those things kind of converging at once. It all came to a head when free agency started. At this point that year, we had no idea. We knew about as much as you did. It came to a head as soon as free agency started and, man, what a day that was.” Aside from winning a Super Bowl, Brady left a lasting impact on the Bucs organization and helped change the culture of the franchise, which had suffered through a 12-season postseason drought. “When we signed him, we talked about that, how the impact he was going to have,” Licht said. “Me being at New England with him the first seven years. What he’s done for them and what he’s done for us is just that. It’s built a winning culture with our coaching staff, and B.A., of course. Built a winning culture, set the standard very high, and now everyone knows what the standard is and everyone works a lot harder reaching that standard. “It’s definitely a different feel in our building,” Licht continued. “It started I would say pre-Brady when Bruce came on board and then Brady and then, obviously, we have a ton of players we owe credit for getting us where we have the last couple of years. It’s not just Tom, but Tom brought the best out in everybody.” The Bucs are in the quarterback market, but Licht said they like what they’ve seen from former Florida Gators quarterback Kyle Trask, whom they drafted with the final pick of the second round a year ago. Trask was inactive for every game as a rookie, but Licht said he benefitted from being around Brady. “Kyle was a really productive, prolific SEC quarterback,” Licht said. “We took him last year in the second round. We felt like we got great value with him. We’ve loved everything we’ve seen of him this year. He’s soaked it in behind Tom, behind Blaine (Gabbert), behind Ryan Griffin some veterans, really smart veteran quarterbacks, and then to see what it takes to reach a high level with Tom has been, it’s just invaluable. He’s got a good arm, he’s very smart, he works very hard. I’m very excited to see what he can do this offseason.” Licht said the Bucs have a lot of work to do this offseason, such as trying to re-sign many of their own free agents, a list that includes receiver Chris Godwin, tight end Rob Gronkowski, cornerback Carlton Davis, safety Jordan Whitehead, center Ryan Jensen, guard Alex Cappa, outside linebacker Jason Pierre-Paul and defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh. But Licht said the Bucs believe they have a chance to win in 2022 in the wide-open NFC South. “We still feel like we have a chance to win this year, and we’re in a division where we think we can compete,” he said. “We have a lot of players that are free agents, but we have a lot of priorities. It just depends on how the puzzle fits together. “We want to win this year, we want to compete this year for the title, but we also want to keep our eye on the future, too. We don’t want to mortgage too much too soon. It’s going to depend on what the market bears. We’re going to try to bring a lot of these guys back.” The Bucs own the 27th overall pick in the draft. Licht said there are a lot of good players to be had in the middle ounds. “There’s some good skill on offense, there’s some good edge players on defense, there’s some good skill players on defense, as well,” Licht said. “I would say it’s not super-heavy at the top, but I would say there’s a lot of good mid-round picks that are going to be had this year. “We’ve had a lot of players we’ve taken in those mid-rounds that we got excited about pre-combine, but also post-combine as well. (Guard) Ali Marpet was one of them. We took him in the second round, a D-III kid from Hobart.” Marpet announced his retirement Sunday at age 28 with two years and more than $20 million remaining on his contract. “We had heard for awhile he was contemplating this,” Licht said of Marpet’s retirement. “It didn’t come as a complete surprise on Sunday. Just happy for him. Goes out on top.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.