TAMPA — Six weeks from now, the Lightning could look at this challenging part of their schedule — going 3-3-0 on a six-game road trip — as a stretch in which they became battle tested for another deep postseason run. Following their 4-1 win over the expansion Kraken, their best all-around game of the trip, they returned home having won two straight, halting their season-high three-game losing streak. The Lightning (39-15-6) are the first team in the league to achieve 20 road wins and their 42 road points lead the NHL. But this team is focused on “process over outcome,” so much so that the saying is engraved on last season’s Stanley Cup rings. The Eastern Conference playoff teams are already pretty much set. Teams are still playing for seeding, and the Lightning likely would face Toronto or Boston in the first round. These next few weeks are about working out the kinks. “Obviously, you want to go out there and win every game,” forward Anthony Cirelli said. “But I think most importantly down the stretch, it’s just kind of trying to find our game and trying to be good in our system. Some nights might not go away. But if we’re playing the right way and doing good things, eventually it will be good for us.” Players and coaches admitted they didn’t like the way they were playing before this stretch — poor puck possession, sloppy passing and defensive lapses were leading to too many odd-man rushes — but not until they were outscored 15-6 in consecutive losses at Winnipeg, Calgary and Edmonton did teams made them pay. “I think the last two games were definitely a step in the right direction,” captain Steven Stamkos said. “It was a little helter skelter there for those three games. Anytime you lose three in a row, and there’s no panic in this group, but it’s a wake-up call for sure.” Asked if teams are strategically trying to get the Lightning out of their game by pressuring the puck holder — in the Lightning’s worst games of the trip, they were sluggish out of the gate, struggled sustaining offensive zone time and sometimes just entering the zone — Cooper said that the Lightning are going to get everyone’s best game as the back-to-back Stanley Cup champions, but especially from teams fighting to get into the playoffs like Edmonton and Vancouver. “We like to come into each game with that mindset that we’re going to come out with two points, but we’ve seen on this road trip, it’s long, it’s grueling,” forward Ross Colton said. “We’re in the dog days of the season here. “I think a lot of guys are looking towards the playoffs, but we can’t do that because ... we’ve got a bull’s-eye on our back every game.” The Lightning rebounded with back-to-back wins in Vancouver and Seattle, allowing just one goal in each game and playing sound defensively. In the win over the Kraken, Tampa Bay’s forecheck was exceptional, allowing the Lightning to dominate in zone time. “I like the way these games played out,” Cooper said of the two wins to end the trip. “To give up one in each and in both games we had the lead going into the third and just shut everything down, that’s back to the way we need to play.” The fact that the Lightning had their best games of the road trip at the end is a good sign, especially since they were playing on tired legs, with a group of penalty killers that averaged seven minutes of ice time per game because of the number of penalties the team committed. After playing the Rangers on Saturday at Amalie Arena, the Lightning head back on the road for games at the Hurricanes, Bruins, Red Wings and Islanders. “It’s only half over,” Cooper said. “We’re flying back to Tampa and we’re just going there cross-country to play one game and then we have four more cities. This is six of the 11; we’re 3-3.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.