After another round of extra-innings negotiations failed to lead to an agreement with the players union on a new labor deal, Major League Baseball on Wednesday canceled two more regular-season series, which includes the Rays’ planned April 8 home opener and six other games at Tropicana Field. Considerable progress on a number of issues reportedly was made in a marathon negotiating session on Tuesday, but when the sides reconvened Wednesday morning they could not finalize a deal. That created another delay in (and more frustration about) when the season will start, with the league saying April 14 is now the earliest possible date, given the need for a four-week spring training. In addition, the schedule, presumably, will be shortened, creating another battle over missed pay. After gaps were narrowed on several of the primary financial issues, talks reportedly broke down over the owners’ request to implement a draft of international amateur players. The international draft was offered in exchange for dropping the qualifying offer for free agents, a process that leads to draft pick compensation that puts a drag on the market. With the players reducing their asks, the owners moved toward them on several key financial issues, including the Competitive Balance Tax (CBT) thresholds, bonus pool for pre-arbitration players and minimum salaries, and offered additional incentives — a full 2022 season, with the first two previously canceled series rescheduled, and thus full pay. Commissioner Rob Manfred, in a statement, said the owners, “in a last-ditch effort” to preserve a 162-game schedule, “went to extraordinary lengths to meet the substantial demands” of the union in presenting a “fair’' deal. In their statement, union officials called the decision to cancel games “completely unnecessary” and said they remain committed to finalizing “a fair contract for all players,” with plans to continue negotiations. The sides, indeed, were to hold informal discussions on the draft issue Wednesday night. Though there appeared to be rancor as talks ended Wednesday, with the sides not only disagreeing on whether to adopt the international draft but even when it became a part of the negotiations, Manfred indicated the overall deal would remain on the table and that it may be their final offer. “We worked hard to reach an agreement and offered a fair deal with significant improvements for the players and our fans,’” he said. “I am saddened by this situation’s continued impact on our game and all those who are a part of it, especially our loyal fans. “We have the utmost respect for our players and hope they will ultimately choose to accept the fair agreement they have been offered.” Union officials, noting they had not gotten a response after making a comprehensive proposal to the owners, said, “Players want to play, and we cannot wait to get back on the field for the best fans in the world.” Had a deal been reached Wednesday, owners planned to reschedule the first two series of the season that had been canceled, allowing teams to play their full 162 games and players to get full pay. Some canceled games would have been made up on off days or with doubleheaders and the others with the season extended three days. Spring training camps would have opened by Saturday, exhibition games would have started March 18 and the regular season would have gotten underway April 7-8. Unless the owners reverse course again by striking a deal within a few days, teams presumably will play a second shortened season in three years, and there will be an additional, and contentious, battle over the missed pay and service time, as the union plans to seek both for the missed games. Based on the latest reported proposals, the financial issues for the five-year pact seemed solvable. On the CBT, the owners offered annual thresholds of $230 million, $232 million, $236 million, $240 million and $242 million; the union $232 million, $235 million, $240 million, $245 million and $250 million. On the new bonus pool for pre-arbitration players, the owners offered $40 million and the players sought $65 million. Both sides were above $700,000 and within $10,000 annually for increased minimum salaries. With the international draft becoming the sticking point, owners offered the players three choices: adding the draft starting in 2024 and dropping the draft pick compensation, not adding the draft but keeping the qualifying offers, or taking until November to further study the draft idea with the option to implement in 2024 or allow the owners to reopen the overall agreement after three years. The players said no, proposing to look at it until November while suspending the qualifying offer, and if they decide against the draft to revert back to the current compensation system for 2023. Among other issues negotiated and seemingly agreed to in some form: expansion of the playoff field to 12 teams, implementation of a six-team lottery system to establish the order of selection for the amateur draft, adding the designated hitter rule in the National League and advertising patches on uniforms and helmets. There also were changes to the process to adjust on-field rules and to some procedural rules, such as limiting to five the number of times in a season a player can be optioned to the minors. The Rays have had 13 games wiped off the schedule, as they were slated to play three-game series at both Boston and Toronto, then host Baltimore for three games and Oakland for four. Under the current schedule, they could open the season April 15 in Chicago, where they would face the White Sox and Cubs. The cancellations have become another weapon in the battle that started when the owners imposed a lockout on Dec. 2 and come with a hefty cost, as both sides lose millions each day of the regular season. Players won’t be getting their bi-weekly pay checks, and owners won’t be selling tickets, parking, concessions or in-stadium merchandise. The cancellations also impact many who rely on the games for income. That includes stadium workers; vendors who provide goods and services to the teams; the bars, restaurants and hotels that derive business from fans; and others. And, also, of course, the fans, who typically at this time of year are excited and engaged heavily. The lockout has already had a major impact on the Florida and Arizona communities which host spring training, as camps were to open in mid-February and, at best, an abbreviated exhibition season will be played. Games were slated to start Feb. 26. Both the players and owners in the last week have announced plans to donate $1 million to help workers at spring stadiums. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.