Gov. Ron DeSantis just signed into law HB1557, now famously known as the “don’t say gay” bill. Introduced as “an act relating to parental rights in education,” the bill puts in place prohibitions that will restrict schools and school districts from making decisions on what should and should not be shared with parents about their children. The bill calls for “parental notification and involvement in critical decisions affecting a student’s mental, emotional, or physical well-being” without ever uttering the key word — “gay” — that has given the bill its informal moniker, the “don’t say gay” law. The bill states that “classroom instruction by school personnel or third parties on sexual orientation or gender identity may not occur in kindergarten through grade 3 or in a manner that is not age-appropriate or developmentally appropriate for students in accordance with state standards.” There has been a lot of confusion and misunderstanding on what the bill is intended to do. In its simplest form, the bill claims to provide transparency between schools and parents, giving more knowledge and control to parents about their child’s education. One could simply read that and think, “that is a great thing, so what’s the issue?” Well, it “solves” a problem that doesn’t exist. And creates problems where there were none before. Teachers and other school officials are, by law, mandatory reporters in the state of Florida. That is to say, if there is an issue with the health or well-being of a child, teachers and school officials already have a legal obligation to notify law enforcement. Also: Kindergarten through third-grade teachers do not include gender identity or sexuality of any kind in their curriculum. So what issue does this law solve? At best, HB 1557 provides opportunity for Florida Republicans to take a grandiose political stance without actually accomplishing anything. At worst, and unfortunately what may become the reality of many youth in Florida, it will take away safe spaces from LGBTQ+ youth. I know this to be true because it is my own story. In 2007, after I had been sexually assaulted by a trusted friend, my school was the only place I felt safe enough to reach out for help. After speaking with my guidance counselors about the situation, I was then able to confide how I had planned and attempted my own suicide. I was met with nothing but support and understanding, and I am who I am today because of the diligent actions and steps taken by the school administrators in the wake of that incident. “Don’t say gay” will not prevent children from learning about homosexuality. It will not prevent them from eventually figuring out their own sexual orientation and gender identity. It will, however, put the most vulnerable members of our community at risk. After the bill signing, state Rep. Carlos G. Smith tweeted a statement. As the first openly gay Latino legislator, he outlines the truth behind the law. “HB 1557 has been weaponized by the governor’s office to launch a bigoted smear campaign to attack and defame LGBTQ Floridians with baseless accusations of grooming and pedophilia. ‘Don’t say gay’ sends a hateful message to our most vulnerable youth who simply need our support.” In 2021, The Trevor Project, an organization focused in suicide prevention and intervention, estimated that more than 1.8 million LGBTQ+ youth in America have seriously considered suicide, with 42 percent of LGBTQ+ youth having considered suicide in the past year alone. Regardless of the law, you are never alone. Speak out and seek help. In Central Florida, Alianza, Project No Labels and Equality Florida are organizations fighting for your rights. Together, we say gay to protect the youth and the future of tomorrow. Laura Rivera is a Latina, a Florida native and communications director of Alianza, which seeks to unite the Puerto Rican and Hispanic population in Florida and develop leaders from within the community that will support progressive policies.