Editor’s note: The February letter of the month responded to a column by Leonard Pitts headlined “Achieving diversity requires intentionality.” Of course, a Black woman is qualified The February letter of the month When the Supreme Court was established in 1789, and for nearly the next two centuries, when a person was nominated to the high court it was certain to be a white man. No president had to make a campaign promise to nominate a white man. No one expected anything else. It wasn’t until 1967 that a Black man, Thurgood Marshall, was nominated by President Lyndon Johnson and confirmed to the court. Ninety-five justices had come before him. All white men. In 1980, presidential candidate Ronald Reagan pledged that he would appoint a woman to the Supreme Court. He didn’t have to say “a white woman.” Of course it would be a white woman. Sandra Day O’Connor became the first woman to serve on the Supreme Court. Now, 42 years later, a Black woman will be nominated and ultimately confirmed. No one should be fighting this appointment. Some opponents act as if no Black woman could possibly be qualified. This only promotes the view of our Republican leaders as the misogynistic white supremacists that recent events have led many to believe they are. Anyone opposed to elevating a Black woman to the Supreme Court should be studying the qualifications and career paths of the nominees before them. It might just open their minds. Susan Harper, St. Petersburg Support for Rhea Law USF names 2 finalists | March 2 I would like to add my voice to those advocating that Rhea Law have the “interim” removed from her title as USF president. News reports indicate she’s one of two candidates who have “advanced” to the next round of consideration. After six months on the job, Rhea has been universally praised for her communication, approachability and absence of controversy. She has smoothed troubled waters. As someone who comes from outside academia, she’s learning on the job but also bringing real-world experience. She’s a USF graduate, a fifth generation Floridian, former USF board trustee and former CEO of the prestigious Fowler White Boggs law firm. (That firm, by the way, handled my family’s legal affairs for more than 60 years so I have a personal connection with Rhea as well.) A great university president must be many things — a visionary, a leader, an administrator, a cheerleader, a fundraiser and a talent recruiter. Rhea Law checks all those boxes. She’s unflappable, personable, confident and whip-smart. USF’s national search has been a useful exercise. But selecting qualified home-grown talent avoids many of the pitfalls of bringing in someone who doesn’t know the university or the community or its power players. Former TECO executive John Ramil, who once served with Rhea on the USF board, perhaps said it best. Rhea’s “got a special talent in that she can be firm in her direction of what she wants to accomplish and be flexible enough in her approach to get input from others,” Ramil told the Tampa Bay Times. “She doesn’t let that confidence get in the way of getting input and better ways and better solutions to getting there.” I urge the university to select Rhea Law to continue the tremendous work she has begun at one of the country’s great universities. Richard Gonzmart, Tampa No grandmaster The desperation of tyrants | Column, March 4 It’s been said that Russian president Vladimir Putin thinks like a chess grandmaster, multiple moves ahead. If that’s the case, why is the Russian army flailing assault on Ukraine facing so much resistance? And didn’t Putin see the broad coalition of support against his actions from many other countries? Did he not anticipate the near-global response against his actions? Or Switzerland, Finland and Sweden, who now are considering joining NATO? And did Putin have any idea that at this stage that there would be discussions about his prosecution for war crimes? Politicians from all corners of the globe try to talk Putin off the edge while he is trying to appear in control at his menacingly long table. No one knows what Putin’s endgame may be, but historically tyrants don’t have a good track record for ultimate success. George Chase, St. Pete Beach Mask up to meet DeSantis Readers are furious with how DeSantis treated masked-up high school students | Letters, March 4 I had this thought while reading the many letters chastising the governor for bullying the students who wore masks. How about everyone who comes in contact with our governor wear a mask? Maybe that will upset him so much he won’t want to make so many public appearances. Wouldn’t that be wonderful? John Wirth, Largo