A real hero. Florida Highway Patrol Trooper Toni Schuck’s quick thinking and selfless decision likely averted a disaster. She pulled her vehicle into the path of a driver who had sped around barricades and was headed toward runners participating in the Skyway 10K on Sunday. Let’s repeat that: The veteran trooper purposefully pulled her SUV into the path of a speeding car. She knew she would get hit. She knew she might die. But she did it anyway. It’s easy to say, “She’s an FHP trooper, that’s her job,” but that so misses the point. The word “hero” is kicked around too often. But make no mistake about it, Schuck is a hero. Just watch the dashcam footage recorded from inside her vehicle. This wasn’t some low-speed fender bender. The BMW, driven by a woman who now faces DUI-related charges, is speeding toward Schuck, who expertly maneuvered into its path before it could get closer to the runners. Thankfully, Schuck survived, though she suffered a concussion and other injuries. She was well enough to attend a news conference on Thursday. Schuck deserves a medal — and the community’s gratitude. Play ball. Baseball’s owners and players finally agreed to play ball this season, coming to agreement on a new labor deal Thursday. The end of the 99-day lockout means that spring training camps across Florida and Arizona will open by Sunday, exhibition games will start March 18 and the regular season will begin April 7. Though that’s a week later than planned, the agreement clears the way for a full 162-game season. That’s good for spring training venues and home fields alike. And for Tampa Bay, it puts the Rays back in the spotlight as the team continues to search for a viable deal to remain in the region beyond the 2027 season. Prime employer. Smart bosses recognize their single-biggest asset: their employees. That’s why Amazon is setting the right example with a program to help its workers advance their educations. The company announced partnerships this month with 140 colleges and universities — including nine in Florida — to fully fund tuition and fees for employees. Hourly employees who have been with Amazon for at least 90 days are eligible for free tuition and fees every year they work at the company. By removing the barrier of cost, Amazon is giving its employees in Florida and elsewhere another way to develop professionally and advance their careers. The company will pay up to 100 percent of eligible benefits, which can be used for tuition, books and fees, with no lifetime limit as long as associates remain employed there. The benefit has been expanded to include programs for completing high school, learning English as a Second Language (ESL) and obtaining bachelor’s degrees. In the central Florida area alone, participating schools include the University of Central Florida, Hillsborough Community College and Polk State College. This is a great opportunity for Amazon employees that enriches both lives and the labor market. Level heads in Clearwater. City officials in Clearwater seem to be striking the right balance in managing the future of the downtown waterfront. With construction continuing on the $84 million Imagine Clearwater makeover, targeted to open next year, the city is soliciting responses from companies to operate the amphitheater, a major element of the revitalized Coachman Park. As the Times’ Tracey McManus reports, the venue will have more than 4,000 covered seats and lawn space for another 5,000 people along the Intracoastal Waterway, serving as a distinct boutique amphitheater in Tampa Bay. The city’s idea — hiring a company to handle everything from booking talent and marketing to running the financial side of an entertainment venue — makes sense. Running major entertainment venues is not what cities do, nor a core function of government. City Manager Jon Jennings also is right that the city should control operations in the rest of the park. Clearwater had discussed partnering with a nonprofit to run programming for the park, but that’s delegating too much authority over this precious, public space. At this early stage, the city is generally drawing the right roles for local government and its private partners. It should keep that broad public interest in mind as sponsorships and other opportunities to monetize this development emerge. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.