TAMPA — He sat directly behind Vanderbilt’s bench Thursday and, like any father with a vested interest in the outcome, lived and died with every loose ball and launched 3-pointer. When his kid sealed the Commodores’ biggest win of the season with a breakaway two-handed dunk off a turnover with 22 seconds remaining, Scottie Pippen stood and raised his pumped fists. Thirty years after the Barcelona Olympics, the Hall of Famer has found another dream team, one led by Scotty Pippen Jr. Suddenly, this club has eclipsed the wildest dreams of most Vanderbilt fans: The 11th-seeded Commodores are headed to the SEC tournament quarterfinals. Down by 15 with 14 minutes to play, Vanderbilt (17-15) leaned on a sequence of clutch baskets and Alabama’s turnover propensity to rally for an 82-76 triumph in Thursday’s nightcap at Amalie Arena. The Commodores face Kentucky — to whom it has lost 12 consecutive times — on Friday at 8 p.m. “I’ve got two suits down and three to go,” said Vandy coach Jerry Stackhouse, whose team must win five games in as many days at Amalie for any chance of reaching the NCAA Tournament. “That’s the thought process. I told all the coaches, ‘Don’t get on the plane if you don’t bring five suits.’” The Commodore comeback stood in glaring contrast to its predecessor. No. 7-seeded South Carolina (18-13), which also arrived in Tampa with slim NCAA Tournament hopes, went out with a clang — an assortment of them. Down by only two at halftime, the Gamecocks managed four second-half field goals (one of them a dunk) in a 73-51 loss to No. 10-seeded Mississippi State. South Carolina’s 12.9-percent effort from the floor in the final 20 minutes (4 of 31) was the program’s worst in a single half in SEC tournament play. Its 28.3-percent effort for the game (17 of 60) also was a record-low for this tourney. “I thought the second half, our defense was incredible,” Bulldogs coach Ben Howland said. So was his team’s advantage inside. Behind 6-foot-11 junior Tolu Smith (20 points, 12 rebounds) and a sequence of transition layups by guard Iverson Molinar (19 points), Mississippi State finished with a 42-16 advantage in points in the paint. The later game was waged on the perimeter. Vanderbilt and sixth-seeded Alabama (19-13) combined for 60 3-point attempts, hitting 17. Two of them, by 6-foot-7 Vandy sophomore Myles Stute, started a 21-6 Commodores run in the second half that tied the score at 57. Neither team would lead by more than six the rest of the way. Vandy took the lead for good on senior guard Rodney Chatman’s 3-pointer from the left baseline with 3:19 remaining before Stute (18 points) added his sixth and final trey — from practically the same spot — to push his team’s lead to 76-71 with 1:20 to go. Fifty-eight seconds later, 6-6 junior Jordan Wright got a backcourt steal and fed Pippen (game-high 26 points), who coasted in for the uncontested dunk and a 79-72 lead. The turnover was Alabama’s 17th of the night. It would finish with 18. “It is fun to finally behold and for the country to start to take notice of the type of team that we have and the type of capabilities we have,” Stackhouse said. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.