TAMPA — Somewhere out there, in a rarefied tax bracket, some deflated sap is suffering from buyer’s and Brady remorse. Hours before Tom Brady again turned Tampa Bay on its head, a spokesman for the Lelands sports-memorabilia auction house confirmed the ball used for what was presumed to be Brady’s final NFL touchdown pass — the one Mike Evans hurled into the south end zone seats at Raymond James Stadium on Jan. 23 — had sold for $518,628. Which is to say, the seismic Bucs news had someone making out like a bandit. Question now becomes, how will the Bucs make out? Does Brady’s return for a third season in pewter — and 23rd NFL season overall — keep Tampa Bay in the NFC South driver’s seat? And what about the NFC in general? At least Vegas thinks so. BetMGM moved its Super Bowl line on the Bucs from +2500 to +850 following Brady’s announcement. Meantime, their odds to win the Super Bowl at Caesars Sportsbook improved from 20-1 entering Sunday to 10-1, and their odds to win the NFC went from 10-1 down to 5-1, just behind the Rams, Packers and 49ers. Of course, those odds could fluctuate based on how the dominoes fall in free agency and, perhaps to a lesser extent, what transpires in the Deshaun Watson sweepstakes. Moreover, Brady’s return puts a $20.2 million cap hit on the team for 2022 (according to spotrac.com), meaning even a contract tweak (i.e. an extension) that pushes money to the future still could impair Tampa Bay’s ability to retain other free agents. But even based on what we know now, the Bucs undoubtedly remain in the conference’s heavyweight division. Once Chris Godwin recovers fully from the knee he mangled Dec. 19 against the Saints, Brady will have his top two receiving targets — Godwin and Mike Evans — intact. Both of his offensive tackles, Donovan Smith and Tristan Wirfs, are still around. So is coach Bruce Arians and offensive coordinator Byron Leftwich; as well as critical defensive complements such as Lavonte David, Vita Vea, Shaquil Barrett, Devin White and Antoine Winfield Jr. Even with the Bucs bound to lose some key pieces in free agency (which revs up this week), the foundation hasn’t suffered a serious crack. The same can’t be said for their NFC South peers. While the Panthers and Saints — neither of whom made the playoffs last season — reportedly are making a serious push for Watson, one or both will come up empty. Even if Watson lands in New Orleans, he won’t have the benefit of working with Super Bowl-winning coach Sean Payton, who has retired. The Falcons evidently are sticking with 36-year-old quarterback Matt Ryan (whose contract reportedly has been restructured) and will be without All-Pro receiver Calvin Ridley, suspended by the NFL for all of 2022 for betting on league games last season. The rest of the NFC? Well, Aaron Rodgers is staying in Green Bay, keeping the Packers embedded in the Super Bowl discussion. The Rams also likely won’t fade after winning Super Bowl 56 but have some cap issues and could be bidding farewell to some veteran components, including linebacker Von Miller (free agent), left tackle Andrew Whitworth (likely retiring) and defensive tackle Aaron Donald (pondering retirement). Additionally, free agent receiver Odell Beckham Jr. tore an ACL in the Super Bowl. And the 49ers, who reached the NFC title game last season, evidently will be breaking in a new quarterback (Trey Lance). So where does it all leave Brady and Co.? With potentially a few more playoff balls for the auction blocks. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls