TAMPA — Even as he wiped beads of perspiration from his forehead on a toasty afternoon, veteran Bucs left tackle Donovan Smith made it clear he’s not sweating his team’s future. “We’re going to be great,” Smith said Thursday in his first public appearance since Pro Bowl peer Ali Marpet’s retirement announcement Sunday. “I don’t know what’s the worry in all of that. We’re going to be great. It’s going to be a great year next year.” Smith and right tackle Tristan Wirfs, now the Bucs’ only starting offensive linemen certain to return in 2022, represented the team as it kicked off its annual Girls Flag Football Preseason Classic at USF. The event, billed as the largest girls flag tournament in the country, attracted roughly 1,500 high school athletes representing 70 teams. A week before, the duo’s most glaring work-related concern involved the retirement of Tom Brady and who was his potential heir. But Sunday, Marpet — essential in protecting Brady against A- and B-gap pass rushers — announced his retirement at age 28 after seven seasons. “To be completely honest, (Marpet) gave me the courtesy of texting me before he told you guys,” Smith said. “It’s obviously a blow anytime you lose a great player like that. Ali, he’s the standard to what a pro is. How he prepared himself day in and day out, how he carried himself on and off the field, the things he’s done in the community, it’s definitely a big void that’s going to be missed and that we’re going to have to fill in many places.” How the Bucs fill it remains to be seen. Presumably, re-signing center Ryan Jensen and  right guard Alex Cappa — both of whom can be unrestricted free agents — becomes more essential. Re-signing veteran backup Aaron Stinnie, who sparkled in the 2020 postseason when Cappa broke his ankle, also could become a higher priority. Addressing the offensive line with the 27th overall pick in the draft also seems more likely. “There’s a saying in college, like, it’s next man up,” said Wirfs, who had no protective brace or wrap on the ankle he injured against the Eagles in last season’s wild-card playoff win. “But I think Ali’s going to ride off into the sunset. He had a great career. He capped it off with a Pro Bowl. He got the recognition he deserved. So I think whoever’s up next is going to be ready to go. It’s going to be some big shoes to fill, but they’re going to be ready.” So will the entire team, Smith insisted, though Brady presumably has retired and 11 players who started the division-round playoff loss to the Rams can be free agents. Referring to fans who may be in panic mode, Smith said, “I don’t know what locker room they’re looking at, but … we have a great locker room from top to bottom. “(We have) a bunch of young guys in position to come in and fill, and for the past two or three years, we’ve set the standard and know what it takes. So it’s just up to the older guys just implementing that and holding everybody accountable.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.