As much as the Lightning’s fast start Sunday night in Vancouver helped them snap their season-high three-game losing streak, the way they locked down on defense — especially in the game’s final minutes — was truly the key to their 2-1 victory. After Canucks forward J.T. Miller cut the Lightning lead to one early in the third period on a goal that came following a questionable no-icing call, and Tampa Bay goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy fought off a Vancouver offensive onslaught for most of the final two periods, the Lightning closed out their first win of the week with their finest defensive effort down the stretch. With Vancouver looking to ramp up pressure, the Lightning allowed just one shot on goal in the final five minutes, 26 seconds. They recaptured some of the things that were missing in the past few games — puck possession, an aggressive forecheck and a sound net front defense — in closing out the win. “The way we played those last five, six minutes, that’s what you have to do,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “You have to defend your way to win games. You can’t score your way out of them all the time. And that’s what we did.” Miller’s goal 5:54 into the third period — which drew complaints from a Lightning bench that wanted an icing call — gave the Canucks hope after they spent most of the game unable to break Vasilevskiy. A couple of calls that went against Vancouver — including a potential tying goal that was waved off because it came after the whistle — brought the Rogers Arena crowd to life. And the Lightning certainly went into the final few minutes Sunday night with tired legs playing the last of seven games in 11 days on the tail end of their six-game road trip through Western Canada. It didn’t help that the Lightning’s charter flight from Edmonton on Saturday night was canceled, forcing the team to arrive in Vancouver just five hours before puck drop. Vasilevskiy (35 saves) carried the Lightning for most of the game, a win he said he needed after losing three of his last four starts. (Vasilevskiy was made available to reporters, but like the team’s other Russian players, will only be answering hockey-related questions, per the team.) “Obviously, I didn’t play my best last few games, and I needed the game (Sunday) to step up and help our guys out,” Vasilevskiy said. “I’m happy that I was able to do that. The whole team played well. Just through the hard work, we were able to overcome this stretch.” Throughout most of the game, both goalies — Vasilevskiy and Vancouver’s Thatcher Demko — dominated. Vasilevskiy’s teammates protected him down the stretch, pressuring through the neutral zone to prevent Vancouver from entering the zone cleanly. “I think it was one of those finishes where you know we did a good job in the neutral zone,” forward Alex Killorn said. “We didn’t give them a ton in zone. When you look at some 5-on-6s, you’re in your zone for a minute and a half and they’re getting a lot of chances. I think we did a good job pressuring them and they didn’t have a ton of opportunities at the end so it was great.” Combine that with a relentless forecheck that kept the puck in the Canucks zone and Vancouver couldn’t pull goalie Demko until 1:11 left in the game. “It was huge,” said Victor Hedman, who had a takeaway in the neutral zone and a blocked shot in the final five minutes. “We’re at our best when we forecheck like that and I don’t think we give up a whole lot and we made it tough for them to pull the goalie. And when they did, we kept them outside and were able to keep the puck not in front of Vasy, just keep it to the outside as much as possible and then kill the game.” The Lightning also had four key blocked shocks in that stretch, including defenseman Mikhail Sergachev stepping in front of Quinn Hughes’ shot with 19 seconds left in 6-on-5 that allowed the Lightning to clear the puck as the clock ticked down to zero. “That’s where (it helps when) you get a lead,” Cooper said. “And everybody says a two-goal lead is the worst lead in hockey. Well, I’d rather have a two-goal lead than a one-goal lead. We got a little bit of leeway there. Credit Miller for scoring, but we thought it was a tough break on our part. But regardless, it’s not changing, and we got to finish out this game.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.