WESLEY CHAPEL — With an extra day off because of a first-round bye as the top-seeded team in the Premier Hockey Federation playoffs, the Connecticut Whale easily could have come out rusty Sunday against the Minnesota Whitecaps. But the extra rest seemed be an advantage for the Whale. Behind a flurry of second-period goals, Connecticut claimed a 4-2 semifinal win at the AdventHealth Center Ice Complex. The victory was Connecticut’s second playoff win in franchise history — the other was in the 2019-20 playoffs — and this is the program’s first trip to the Isobel Cup final. The Whale will face the Boston Pride, a 5-1 winner over the Toronto Six. “It’s just an exciting feeling,” Whale coach Colton Orr said. “It’s a special group here. … And we know we have some unfinished business to go, so we’re enjoying it now.” After a scoreless first period, a flood of goals ensued during the second. Whale forward Kennedy Marchment — who logged a game-high five shots on goal in the first period — opened the scoring 1:23 in. Marchment, the league’s regular-season leader in points (33) and assists (20), finished with a game-high nine shots and had a goal and an assist. Minnesota forward Allie Thunstrom answered 5:06 in, sending a shot past Whale goaltender Abbie Ives (19 saves). Connecticut forward Janine Weber sent a shot past Whitecaps goaltender Amanda Leveille (29 saves) to regain a one-goal lead with 13:05 remaining in the period. A penalty for too many players on the ice led to a Minnesota power-play goal from forward Ashleigh Brykaliuk to tie the score with 4:31 left in the period. The Whale’s offense continued to pressure, and forward Alyssa Wohlfeiler got the go-ahead goal 14 seconds after the Whitecaps’ score. Defender Tori Howran’s shot past Leveille added insurance for the Whale with 2:50 remaining in the second. The Whale’s defense shut down Connecticut in a scoreless third period. “For us, it’s situational hockey and understanding where we are in a game,” Orr said. “I think we’re very confident with a lead … so we want to make sure that when we have these leads, we find ways to finish them.” Up next Premier Hockey Federation Isobel Cup final: Connecticut Whale vs. Boston Pride, 9 p.m. Monday Watch: ESPN2 Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.