We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “The Right Is Still the Enemy of Freedom,” by Branko Marcetic in Jacobin. The context, from the author: Some liberals have signed on to a worrying number of anti–civil liberties measures in recent years. The Right wants to rebrand as the new champion of freedom. This is absurd: No one is pushing authoritarianism harder than conservatives. The excerpt: From criminalizing protest, to banning books, concepts and even words from schools, to using executive power in new, repressive ways — the Right continues to be an extreme and growing authoritarian threat in today’s United States. From “The Shaming-Industrial Complex,” by Becca Rothfeld in the New Yorker. The context, from the author: In the online era, shaming is a national pastime, and yet shameless conduct persists. Should we double down? The excerpt: It seems unlikely that shaming the shamers will yield anything approaching justice. Even when shame is employed in the service of virtuous norms, it’s bound to spawn excessive cruelties when it is unleashed on a national, or even a global, scale. By now, so many blunderers have become full-fledged personae non gratae that it is impossible to keep track of all of their demolished lives. Many of these untouchables have exhibited bona-fide misjudgments, but the scope of their censure is disproportionate to the severity of their crimes. From “The Left Has Half-Baked Answers on Ukraine,” by Eric Levitz in New York Magazine’s Intelligencer. The context, from the author: In recent weeks, a wide variety of publications and politicians have taken U.S. leftists to task for their collective response to the crisis in Ukraine, which has been derided as blinkered, “pro-Putin,” and worse things besides. The excerpt: Some of the most prominent left-wing writers and organizations in America have proven too ideologically rigid to see the conflict through clear eyes. Their arguments have been less offensive for their substantive content than their intellectual carelessness. Obvious counterarguments go unaddressed; apparent contradictions, unexplained; falsified predictions, unaccounted for. This apparent aversion to acknowledging complexity and moral ambiguity should trouble anyone invested in the left’s political project. FROM THE RIGHT From “Why Can’t the West Admit That Ukraine Is Winning?” by Eliot A. Cohen in The Atlantic. The context, from the author, who was a counselor to President George Bush’s Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice: The evidence that Ukraine is winning this war is abundant, if one only looks closely at the available data. The absence of Russian progress on the front lines is just half the picture, obscured though it is by maps showing big red blobs, which reflect not what the Russians control but the areas through which they have driven. The excerpt: The West’s biggest obstacle to accepting success, though, is that we have become accustomed over the past 20 years to think of our side as being stymied, ineffective or incompetent. It is time to get beyond that, and consider the facts that we can see. From “A New Period of Consequences,” by William Kristol in The Bulwark. The context, from the author: To quote Churchill in 1936 — years before World War II broke out — we have entered a period of consequences. The excerpt: So when I say that it is 1936, I mean that no matter how trying this moment is, the period of great testing lies ahead of us. The immediate crisis is merely the beginning of a series of challenges that we’ll face for quite a while. And one of the keys to handling the future well is understanding that we’re at the beginning of a new era, not dealing with a temporary or unpleasant interruption in the status quo. From “Do Universities Have the Courage to Solve Their Free-Speech Problem?” by Kristen Waggoner in The National Review. The context, from the author: Finding a university that voices support for free speech is easy. You would be hard pressed to find one that does not. Finding a university that puts such support into practice today is more difficult, if not impossible. And while I’ve known this for some time, I experienced it firsthand recently at Yale Law School. The excerpt: I recently spoke at Yale Law School on the topic of remedies for First Amendment violations. The subject is not controversial; in fact, it is one on which members from both sides of the political spectrum agree. I am a conservative Christian, and I was joined on a panel by another lawyer — a progressive atheist, from the American Humanist Association. While we disagree on some very important issues, we wanted to demonstrate that we can still engage in civil discourse and find common ground when protecting civil rights. One issue we agree upon is a free-speech case I argued before the U.S. Supreme Court that united both sides of the political spectrum. Sadly, 120 or so law students showed up to hurl insults and disrupt our discussion.