Here’s the real problem State gooberisms are running out of control | Column, March 13 Soaring food and gas prices; growing labor shortages throughout the state; high rents getter higher, causing thousands to go homeless. These are some of the serious problems facing Florida. How has our Republican-led state Legislature confronted these important issues? By first passing bills to suppress voting, especially in those areas heavily populated by Democrats. Then, by passing a bill to restrict the teaching of critical race theory and essentially sugar-coating the teaching of slavery, lynching and other racial atrocities so white children won’t feel bad. Then, by passing legislation to restrict a woman’s right to abortion. Finally, by passing a controversial bill that limits classroom discussion about “sexual orientation and gender issues.” As a long-time Republican, I am disgusted by all these shenanigans. Perhaps these Republican state legislators and their district constituents are wealthy, so they don’t have to worry about the soaring cost of food and gas and rents, and therefore don’t feel the need to address mundane issues that don’t affect their own lives. Henry J. Weese, Palm Harbor Biden and gas prices Biden must take some blame for higher gas prices | Letters, March 15 The letter writer blames President Joe Biden for gas price increases by offending Saudi Arabia and restricting domestic oil and gas production. I think he is wrong. That Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, ordered the murder of Jamal Khashoggi is not “inconclusive.” A U.S. intelligence report states it as fact. Arms sales to Saudi Arabia were curtailed because the country has been using them to meddle in the Yemeni civil war, widely considered the world’s worst humanitarian crisis before the invasion of Ukraine. And Saudi Arabia, the pivotal member of OPEC, has never been a reliable friend of America. Short of nationalizing the oil companies and banning exports, Biden can little more affect gas prices than King Canute could hold back the sea. James A. Smith, St. Petersburg Misquoting the experts Experts slam state guidelines | March 13 There is an old saying about trying to fit a square peg into a round hole. This seems to be what Florida’s “square peg” surgeon general is doing to appease his benefactor, the governor, in his minimalist approach to all things COVID. This hand-in-glove pair work in unison to parse scientific research to its lowest denominator, effectively obscuring important details. The public relies on accurate reporting when making life and death decisions. Without science, you are left with superstition. Leslie Phillips, Brooksville