PORT CHARLOTTE — Tyler Glasnow hopes to be back to his full-time job pitching for the Rays sometime this season. But he has been plenty busy with his side gig, serving as the team’s union representative. Usually, that’s a job with some tedious and sometimes annoying tasks. But doing so during contentious negotiations for a new labor agreement was somewhat consuming, between keeping up with the developments, sharing details and answering questions. Glasnow said he was happy to have served. “I was glad that I got to do it and be able to share all the info and that everyone was so involved,” he said Sunday as the Rays officially opened spring training. “Everyone was, all 30 teams. And there’s so much back and forth between reps and executive board and everything. “It was really nice to see how stuck together the players were. ... It was a really good experience, and I liked it. I was glad I could be there for everyone.” The Rays, through Glasnow, were among 26 teams (of 30) that voted to accept the final proposal from the owners, overruling the eight-man executive board. He said he thought it was fair for all. “The younger guys got paid more, and the pre-arbitration (bonus) pool was a nice addition with the (Competitive Balance Tax thresholds) going up,” he said. “It was just a good opportunity for full season. I just think missing games at this point would have sucked for everyone, especially fans. It was kind of a good situation for everyone. Some compromise here and there. It just worked out well.” Glasnow was the first Ray to report to camp Friday and among the happiest to be there, having spent the three-plus months of the lockout doing his rehab from Tommy John surgery and conditioning at various private facilities. “I definitely took having everything in-house for granted,” he said. “Having to drive around to do all this stuff, going to different (physical therapists), just workouts and driving everywhere. I’m extremely happy to be back and do everything in here.’’ Glasnow is adamant about not looking ahead, knowing he is still in the early stages of a lengthy process from the Aug. 4 surgery (which included installation of a brace) that can be delayed by minor issues and that the window to return late this season will be small. But so far everything has gone well. “I feel really good,” he said. “I’m throwing to 75 feet three days a week. Nothing too crazy, but my arm’s been bouncing back feeling really good. So just looking forward to hopefully coming back this year.” Checking in Most of the players checked in and took their physicals on report day Sunday, and several went on the field for some light work — playing catch or fielding balls. Several team officials noted how happy everyone seemed about being back after going through the 99-day lockout. The full squad — currently 49 players — is expected to be in camp Monday, so there will be a formal workout. Miscellany Though staff and players weren’t allowed to have contact during the lockout, manager Kevin Cash acknowledged he ran into Corey Kluber, the veteran starter signed to a one-year, $8 million deal the day before the lockout — at the Eric Church concert March 5 in Tampa. … Kluber, who lives in Tampa, said it was “unique” to not be allowed to talk with his new bosses or work out at Tropicana Field during the lockout. But he did take his family to the stadium for the Enchant Christmas festival. … Glasnow, who will be a free agent after 2023, said he has not had any talks with the Rays about an extension. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.