TAMPA — On the other side of retirement, tomorrow never seems as exciting as it used to. Oh, there are joys. There are hugs, there are vacations, there are pleasures you never had the time to appreciate. But for the competitor, the man in the huddle, the greatest of all-time, there is a void. Tom Brady had 40 days and nights to consider this. He dabbled in some new business ventures, he played some golf, he visited his parents back home in California. And then, at the last possible moment before free agency, he decided to get the gang together again for one final ride. Yes, Tampa Bay, the joy is back in football. Heck, in these uncertain times, the joy is back in waking up. This is good for Tampa Bay. Very, very good. Brady brings attention, energy, an unmistakable buzz wherever he goes. It’s also good for the Bucs and the NFL. He is, after all, the Microsoft of football investments. Heck, it’s even good for the Tampa Bay Times. No one drives readership quite like TB12. But is it good for Brady? That’s a question that should not be overlooked in all the revelry and laughter. This has a chance of being the one misstep in an otherwise flawless journey. The beauty of Brady’s career was that he was always on top, or at least close enough to smell the champagne. The Deflategate controversy may have wounded him, but it wasn’t enough to change the narrative. As far as the world knew, Tom Brady was the guy who was never in the wrong place, never said the wrong thing, never made the wrong gamble. And now he is risking a 20-year hot streak on the hope that there is still enough talent on Tampa Bay’s roster and enough magic in his soon-to-be 45-year-old self to defy the reality of salary caps and hourglasses. Don’t get me wrong. I am thrilled Brady is coming back. He makes the Bucs relevant and he makes the 2022 season a whole lot more enticing around here. If I had to guess, I would say Brady will throw for another 4,000 yards and another 30 touchdowns. And that’s enticing because most of us watch sports to see something special. Something memorable. Something awe-inspiring. A great ballgame or individual moment is something we all get to celebrate. But there is a flip side to that equation. We appreciate the remarkable because there is so much disappointment surrounding it. That’s been an inevitability for nearly every athlete from an overweight Babe Ruth trying to recapture his glory in a Boston Braves uniform, to Michael Jordan looking oddly mortal after a three-year retirement. So why would Brady risk that kind of denouement to his career? I’m not sure anyone outside of his immediate family and friends knows that answer. If you’re a black-and-white kind of person, you take Brady at his word and assume he simply changed his mind. If you’re conspiracy-minded, you wonder if Brady had decided a Super Bowl was no longer likely in Tampa Bay and his “retirement” was an unsuccessful ploy to get the Bucs to trade him elsewhere. If you’re a Bucs fans, you probably don’t give a crap why he came back. You’re just worried grandpa is going to want to keep his season tickets now. And for now, that’s the proper takeaway. We can worry about the age of the defensive line, the holes in the offensive line and the prices on StubHub later. The real news this morning is Tampa Bay has already won the offseason. Think about it. They’re excited in Washington about getting quarterback Carson Wentz. Carson Wentz! Packers fans are supposed to be thrilled that Aaron Rodgers — with his one Super Bowl ring — has decided to hog the salary cap to himself. And fans in Houston are relieved their estranged quarterback was not indicted as a sexual predator. Meanwhile, back here in the land that ESPN forgot, it’s time to tap another keg. Brady is back, Rob Gronkowski is hovering nearby and that mischievous glint has returned to Bruce Arians’ eyes. Instead of worrying about which free agents might return or whether Kyle Trask was ready to take over an NFL offense, we’ve already switched gears and are imagining tailgate parties outside Raymond James Stadium, the sound of cannons and the opening kickoff on Sept. 11. Reservation for Mr. Brady, party of 65,000. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes.