BOSTON — After losing six of their past eight games and being sent to their second  three-game losing streak in the past three weeks with a 3-2 loss to the Bruins on Thursday, the Lightning hardly look like a  championship-caliber team. Their drive for a third straight Stanley Cup championship has hit a major snag during an 11-games-in-11-cities stretch this month, and after the loss to the Bruins, the Lightning slipped into a wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference. Here’s a look at five reasons they are struggling. Confidence is wavering The Lightning know the winning formula. They’ve been a confident group because of it. They are comfortable in uncomfortable situations because they know how to pull out wins. It works until it doesn’t, and that the Lightning are in the midst of their worst eight-game stretch since going 1-6-1 early in the 2016-17 season shows this is something they are not used to. “The toughest thing to get back in the world, in any facet of the world, is confidence,” captain Steven Stamkos said. “It’s such a fickle word and something that people take for granted. I think when you have it, it’s great, but it goes away pretty quick, and you have to grind and battle and not cheat the game to get it back. So that’s what we’ll look to do.” Scoring stars are struggling When they’re at their best, the Lightning are getting offensive contributions from across all four lines. But with the skill they possess on their top lines, those are the guys that drive success. Now, the top scorers are going through a slump at the same time. Stamkos’ goal Thursday was his first in nine games. Nikita Kucherov has one goal in his past 11 games, Brayden Point one in his past nine. The Lightning’s big three are getting scoring opportunities, but they’re missing wide or hitting posts. Adding to the Lightning’s frustration is that Tampa Bay hasn’t been able to break through when its top scorers are on power plays. Over the past nine games, the Lightning are 3-for-28 with the man advantage. Point’s power-play goal against the Rangers in last Saturday’s home loss is the only man-advantage goal scored by the big three during that stretch. Defenseman Victor Hedman has the other two. Discipline is lacking The Lightning long have been a team that commits a lot of minor penalties, but over the past two seasons, they’ve been able to overcome them. This team hasn’t been good enough to do so. Inside their locker room, the Lightning might create the narrative that they’re not getting calls. Following a loss to Pittsburgh this month, coach Jon Cooper wondered at a news conference why the Penguins were one of the fewest-penalized teams in the league. But reputation goes both ways, and the Lightning are known as a team that commits a lot of penalties. That means they need to work harder to avoid penalties. Combine that with sloppy puck play that leads to odd-man rushes — Boston had five odd-man rushes in the first period Thursday, compared with none for the Lightning — and it’s a recipe for losing. The opposition is better The Lightning set a high bar in winning the past two Cups. If their play against their conference opponents this season is any indication, it’s clear their opponents have closed the gap. Entering Friday, the eight teams in the Eastern Conference playoff positions were separated by 12 points. The Lightning are 6-9-3 against the other seven teams in playoff positions and have multiple wins against just one, the Capitals. Their best player is frustrated We’re not talking about Kucherov. We know he’s frustrated. But goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy typically doesn’t show emotion, and that’s one of the things that makes him great. Vasilevskiy continues to be the Lightning’s most valuable player because of the way he has kept his team in games despite being left on an island by his defense. Vasilevskiy has played a lot of hockey over the past three seasons, and this season he’s facing an average of nearly 30 shots a game. It might be starting to catch up with him, mentally and physically. Two of Bruins forward David Pastrnak’s three goals Thursday were on shots Vasilevskiy normally would have stopped, and with a tie score late in the third period, Vasilevskiy looked to the ceiling in frustration, thinking the Bruins had scored through his five hole on a shot that he stopped and was in front of him. Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.