ST. PETERSBURG — Once you’ve gotten all the dad jokes about the Baroque period out of your system (personal favorite: They spent so much on the Renaissance, they all went Baroque), revel in the decadence and drama of the artistic era at the current exhibition at the Museum of Fine Arts, St. Petersburg. “Bernini and the Roman Baroque: Masterpieces From Palazzo Chigi in Ariccia” showcases works by Gian Lorenzo Bernini as well as dozens of fellow artists from the Roman Baroque, circa 1600-1700, from the private collection of the affluent Italian Chigi family. It’s organized by Glocal Project Consulting and is toured by International Arts & Artists, Washington, D.C. Patrons will notice that on exhibition labels, Bernini is referred to as Giovan Lorenzo Bernini, rather than the widely used Gian Lorenzo or Gianlorenzo. The museum chose to use the name provided by Glocal Project Consulting. To be clear, all of those names refer to the same person. The Chigis, originally from Siena, Italy, were bankers who drifted into Rome during the Renaissance and became papal bankers, thereby acquiring power and wealth. By the 1600s, their status had become so powerful, one family member became a pope. They had access to the greatest artists of the era, Bernini being one of the most celebrated. He was known for creating theatrical sculpture, paintings, decorative arts and architecture that transformed Rome during the Baroque period. Palazzo Chigi, the family’s summer home in Ariccia, just outside of Rome, was designed by Bernini. The exhibition explores the family’s relationship with Bernini and the collection of art amassed there. There are interesting anecdotes about the family reflected through the works, which on a recent tour were pointed out by Stanton Thomas, the museum’s senior curator of collections and exhibitions. A gilded copper fitting designed by Bernini for Flavio Chigi’s Black Velvet Carriage reveals one such anecdote. Flavio Chigi was a cardinal in Rome, although Thomas said he didn’t think his religious calling was all that sincere. He loved beautiful women, hunting, fashion and cuisine, and would go around in a black carriage adorned with Bernini’s small sculptures. It’s remarkable to see Bernini work on a small scale, as he was more known for his large sculptures. But the smaller works are just as dramatic and detailed. Another standout is his hanging lamp depicting cherubs holding up a crown, probably a reference to crowning the Virgin Mary as the Queen of Heaven. It is topped with stars that come from the Chigi family crest, symbolic of the family’s power. Hung amid paintings and plush velvet couches, it really ties the room together. A portrait of Flavio Chigi by Flemish painter Ferdinand Voet, who was drawn to the artistic energy in Rome, is on display. Thomas reiterated that the painting depicts Flavio Chigi’s reluctance to be a cardinal, instead preferring to spend his time on more carnal pursuits. He collected portraits of beautiful women and lined his walls with them, setting a trend in Europe at that time. The exhibition contains such portraits. A painting depicting an allegorical image of summer beckons closer inspection. It’s by two artists, Carlo Maratti (or Maratta) and Mario Nuzzi, who went by the pseudonym Mario De’ Fiori, which translates to “of the flowers.” Nuzzi painted the lush flowers in the painting, which was one of four depicting the seasons. Nuzzi captured rare imported flowers from exotic locations that decorated the homes of the wealthy. The next gallery deals with religious paintings, some of them quite dark in theme and heavy on Baroque drama. Sanguis Christi (Blood of Christ) is a collaboration between Bernini and French artist Guillaume Courtois, called II Borgognone. It’s also known as the Sea of Blood. Thomas recounted a grisly background story in which Bernini had a servant slash the face of a woman he was having an affair with because she was cheating on him. The pope stepped in and found him a wife, and after that Bernini was a devout Roman Catholic. Thomas said Bernini would meditate on the image of Christ’s crucifixion, reflecting on his sinful past and believing that Christ’s blood would wash away his sins. These anecdotes and more are present throughout the exhibition, with QR codes accompanying key pieces to reveal more information about the family, Bernini and the colorful, sensual, theatrical and decadent art of the Roman Baroque. If you go “Bernini and the Roman Baroque: Masterpieces From Palazzo Chigi in Ariccia.” On view through May 8. $10-$20, free for children 6 and younger and guests eligible for the Museums for All program (must present SNAP EBT card). 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Tuesday-Wednesday and Friday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-8 p.m. Thursday ($10 admission after 5 p.m.), noon-5 p.m. Sunday. Museum of Fine Arts, St. Petersburg, 255 Beach Drive NE. 727-896-2667. mfastpete.org.