TAMPA — The nonprofit group that runs child welfare in the Fort Myers-Naples region could be in line to win an $87 million annual contract to do the same in Hillsborough County. The Florida Department of Children and Families is in negotiations with Children’s Network of Southwest Florida, officials said at a meeting of child welfare stakeholders this week. Children’s Network did not submit a bid for the contract, but state officials reached out to the nonprofit, as allowed by state rules. Department officials are also in talks with WestCare, a Las Vegas behavioral health and social services agency that was the only bidder to replace Eckerd Connects, according to a DCF email obtained by the Tampa Bay Times. The move to negotiate with Children’s Network may signal the state will once again pass on the Las Vegas group. It was one of seven agencies that applied in November to run the child welfare system in Pinellas and Pasco but did not make a list of three finalists. It’s unclear when the state will make a final decision. DCF spokesperson Laura Walthall said she cannot comment on an active active procurement and solicitation process. Florida must find a new provider by the end of June when Eckerd Connects’ contract expires. The Clearwater nonprofit announced it would no longer provide child welfare services in Hillsborough after it lost its Pinellas-Pasco contract, which was worth $80 million per year, at the end of 2021. Pinellas Sheriff Bob Gualtieri in November launched a criminal investigation into Eckerd Connects, saying the agency housed children in an unlicensed office on Ulmerton Road amid “disgusting and deplorable” conditions. Children’s Network is a subsidiary of Camelot, a nonprofit also headquartered in Clearwater that has provided case management and transportation services in Hillsborough. The company has had problems previously. A Camelot driver delivered and left a 4-year-old foster child at the wrong house in 2017. That mistake led to Eckerd Connects putting Camelot’s transportation contract out to bid. The same year, Camelot was terminated from a contract to run a teen center in Tampa where police were called for 13 disturbances and 57 runaways in a 5-month stretch. Children’s Network Chief Executive Officer Nadereh Salim said that while her agency is a subsidiary of Camelot, it operates separately with its own CEO, board of directors and bank accounts. It has served as the lead foster care agency in a circuit comprised of Charlotte, Glades, Lee, Hendry and Collier counties for the past 19 years. Children’s Network cares for about 2,100 children including roughly 1,200 either placed with foster parents, relatives or group homes. Hillsborough, which is the second largest child welfare district in the state, has around 3,100 children. Salim said her agency would increase the emphasis on keeping families together by providing services to help them overcome issues that result in calls to the abuse hotline. “We serve families with an emphasis on prevention, diversion and early intervention,” she said in an email. “We believe in strengthening families to prevent children from having to enter the formal child welfare system whenever possible.” One of the most critical issues facing any new provider will be the number of older teens in foster care who either refused placements or were too disruptive for traditional foster homes. Dozens of teens in the county have at some point been classified as night-to-night placements, meaning they either sleep in offices or are passed from one foster home to another, often arriving late at night and leaving early the next day. Salim said those problems are not unique to Hillsborough, and said it’s well established that there is a lack of therapeutic foster beds in the state where teens can get intensive therapy for behavioral issues. “We focus on stabilizing and regulating the youth’s behaviors through therapeutic intervention and services, engaging community mentors, and searching for relatives and others with an existing relationship to the child who might reconsider caring for these youth with additional support,” she said.