TAMPA — As the Lightning round out the regular season, their focus is not only on securing a playoff spot but refining their game for the playoffs. And at this time of the season, as teams posture for positioning, games get tighter. Goals are at a premium, and the little things that hurt teams become more glaring. That’s why the Lighting are concerned about the number of penalties they’re committing. In recent weeks, it has been the difference between winning and losing close games. And that was the case in their 2-1 loss to the Rangers on Saturday night at Amalie Arena. A prime-time national TV broadcast, a sizable number of snowbird Rangers fans and a tight game gave the night a postseason feel. The Lightning flirted with disaster throughout , continuously allowing the league’s second-ranked power play a man advantage. They killed off the first five Rangers power plays, but defenseman Erik Cernak’s high-sticking penalty with 2:15 left in regulation came back to haunt them. Rangers forward Mika Zibanejad scored the winning power-play goal with 16 seconds left in the third period. “We play (Sunday’s) game and we take six minors,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “We put a skilled team like that on the power play for 11 minutes while our guys sit on the bench. … Right now you wonder what’s going on with this team and how we literally shoot ourselves in the foot. That’s a big reason.” The Lightning (39-16-6) lost all three of their meetings with the Rangers, going 0-2-1, with two of the losses decided by one goal. “You don’t want to see something like this happen,” Cooper said. “But we probably needed something like this just to happen to maybe get the train back on the tracks.” The Lightning entered the night having committed 22 minor penalties in the past five games, giving opponents 34:13 of power-play time over that stretch. The Lightning came close to killing off that last Rangers power play and sending the game into overtime. Forward Anthony Cirelli has just blocked forward Artemi Panarin’s shot attempt on net, but Panarin reclaimed the puck off the wall, then set up Zibanejad with a cross-ice pass for a one-timer at the left circle that beat Andrei Vasilevskiy near post with one second left on the power play. The Rangers’ power play entered the night operating at a 26.9-percent clip, second in the league to the Maple Leafs’ 28.8-percent success rate, but the Lightning penalty kill stymied New York until the end. In the second period, New York was on the power play for 5:48, but the Lightning allowed only two shots over that stretch. Vasilevskiy (25 saves) kept his teammates in the game and was locked in a duel with Rangers goaltender Igor Shesterkin, who made 28 saves. Point put the Lightning up with 3:29 left in the first period on a power play. Defenseman Victor Hedman put the puck on net from the point. It was stopped by Shesterkin but remained live at his pads. Point jumped into action and poked the puck between the goalie’s legs. The Rangers evened the score 9:25 into the second when defenseman Jacob Trouba put in a loose puck in front of the net past Vasilevskiy. The Lightning challenged the goal, arguing goalie interference by Rangers wing Dryden Hunt in the paint, but their challenge failed. That put the Rangers on one of their four power plays in the period, including one that continued into the first 1:02 of the third after Lightning forward Alex Killorn was called for hooking while trying to stop Zibanejad’s breakaway in the final minute of the second period. The Lightning actually had more scoring chances than the Rangers in 5-on-5 play, 17-16, and were pushing over the final 7½ minutes,outshooting New York 4-0 in the final even-strength minutes before Cernak’s penalty was called. “I thought we were playing good,” Point said. “We were limiting their chances, and I thought we had a couple of good looks. It’s an unlucky penalty. Things happen, and they capitalized on it.” The game was the Lightning debut of forward Brandon Hagel, who was acquired in a trade with the Blackhawks on Friday. He arrived in Tampa around noon Saturday and logged 10:40 of ice time, mostly on the wing alongside Ross Colton and Mathieu Joseph on the third line. Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.