Former state Rep. Adam Hattersley of Riverview has become the first prominent Democrat to file for a Florida Cabinet post in the 2022 election, challenging Republican Chief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis. Hattersley, 43, a former U.S. Navy nuclear submarine engineer and small business owner, acknowledges he faces an uphill fight against Patronis, who starts the race with more than $3.5 million in his campaign fund and a separate political committee, Treasure Florida. But Hattersley said issues including Florida’s property insurance crisis call for a change. He said Patronis is “the most vulnerable member of the Cabinet” and “someone from the radical right. This position transcends party — people don’t want somebody far left or far right. “Property insurance rates are out of control. ,” Hattersley said. “The CFO is supposed to be the firewall against that, and his office at best hasn’t done anything about it and at worst encouraged it.” He promised to “stand up to insurers, protect consumers and focus on Florida for a change.” “We feel very good about being competitive,” he said. “I wouldn’t be doing it if I didn’t see a path to victory.” Hattersley delighted Democrats in 2018 by flipping an east Hillsborough state House seat in what was considered solid Republican territory after being outspent more than 3-1 in his first run for public office.. But in 2020. he left the seat to run for Congress, losing in a primary to Alan Cohn. Republican Scott Franklin of Lakeland won the congressional seat and Democrat Andrew Learned replaced Hattersley in the state House. Hattersley is considered a moderate to conservative Democrat and received backing in 2020 from 3.14 Action, a PAC that backs scientists running for office, and the Blue Dogs, a group of conservative Democrats in Congress He has degrees in aerospace engineering from the University of Michigan and taught engineering at the U.S. Naval Academy. Hattersley and his wife moved to the area shortly after he finished his eight-year Navy career in 2008, during which he earned a Bronze Star. The couple formerly operated a promotional products company, but were forced to close it, he said, because the pandemic quashed in-person events at which his products were distributed. A former member of his university’s national championship gymnastic team, he has since been a gymnastics judge in international competitions. Announcing his candidacy Tuesday, he said he “has support from many statewide leaders,” and cited one endorsement, from former CFO Alex Sink of Tampa.