How to get better representation Don’t make it harder for Floridians to pass constitutional amendments | Editorial, March 8 Citizen’s initiatives to amend the Florida Constitution absolutely need to be reined in. Far too often they are asking voters to decide on issues for which they have no background information other than what slickly produced television advertisements tell them to believe. Legislators are elected and paid to do the research into bills, and they should be expected to do their job. The problem is with redistricting and gerrymandering; politicians pick their voters rather than the other around. An obvious and non-partisan solution to this is to allow ZIP codes to do the districting automatically. Once it is determined how many citizens are to be represented by a legislator, use the population in each contiguous ZIP code to determine who their constituents will be; 33701 is grouped with 33702 followed by 33703 and so on. Political gerrymandering machinations would be brought to a minimum, and possibly disparate groups of people would need to elect centrists, not extremists speaking only to their “safe seat.” Stuart McKinney, Gulfport Too bad for Putin Pentagon rejects NATO allies giving jets to Ukraine | March 10 During the Vietnam War, the Soviet Union supplied North Vietnam with planes, weapons, ammo and any other equipment they needed to kill American forces. It was no secret that the Russians were doing it. And yet, today we are afraid that Vladimir Putin will get mad if we supply the Ukrainians with jets. Give me a break. I say that if Putin doesn’t like it, too bad. Thomas Rover, Frostproof A boondoggle Vote bill goes to DeSantis | March 10 What an expensive waste of taxpayers’ money to “create a first-of-its-kind office to investigate election crimes.” Florida is going to create an entirely new division of government to protect us from voter fraud and election crimes that have simply not been proven to exist in Florida in any meaningful way. Rick Ceaser, St. Petersburg Imagine if ... Study: Mild COVID can shrink the brain | March 8 Perhaps the many unvaccinated males in Florida would think differently if COVID shrank another part of their anatomy rather than just the brain. Janet Kruger, Dunedin