PORT CHARLOTTE — This is bad news. Indisputably, undoubtedly, unexpectedly bad news. But … maybe not quite awful. Shane Baz, the Rays’ top pitching prospect, underwent arthroscopic surgery to remove loose bodies from his right elbow in Dallas on Monday. He likely will resume throwing again in two to three weeks. “He threw a bullpen, he felt outstanding,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “After the bullpen, he was sitting at his house, kind of stretched his arm like all pitchers do, and felt something he didn’t like. It kind of locked up on him. He went and got an MRI and I mean the loose body was as clear as day. “So they went in there and they got it out. They’re very, very happy with the way everything else looked. We’re fortunate. There’s never a good time but if you’re going to pick one, it’s probably right now.” This definitely rules Baz out for the start of the season — and could keep him out until early summer — but, chances are, he was not going to be in Tampa Bay’s rotation coming out of spring training. Baz, 22, may have been a mini-sensation when he came up at the end of 2021, but he has never thrown more than 100 innings in any season in his professional career. The Rays had not publicly put a limit on his workload for 2022, but they don’t normally want a pitcher to increase his career high in innings by a drastic number. That means there was a strong possibility Baz would have started the year at Triple-A Durham where his work could have been closely monitored. “It’s not the worst thing,” Cash said. “I know he’s frustrated, I know he’s disappointed, just because of what he accomplished last year and how he helped us at the end of the season and was looking forward to the beginning (of this season). But he’s going to be just fine.” Baz made his major-league debut last September and went 2-0 with a 2.03 ERA in his first three starts. The only runs he allowed were three solo homers and he averaged 12.2 strikeouts per nine innings. He got the ball in Game 2 of the American League Division Series against Boston and ended up giving up as many runs in 2.1 innings as he had in his three previous starts. Coming into camp earlier this month, Baz said he was eager to work on some tweaks he made in the offseason but also seemed to acknowledge that he wasn’t a lock to make the team. “I don’t really have a set (number of) innings I want to throw,” Baz said. “Obviously just being as ready as I can to get the ball every five days, wherever I am type-of-thing. I feel like I’m ready for that and just want to help us win any way I can in whatever possible way.” Barring other injuries or surprises, Tampa Bay’s current rotation plans probably include Shane McClanahan, Corey Kluber, Luis Patino, Drew Rasmussen and Ryan Yarbrough. Josh Fleming and Jalen Beeks also could be available in long roles or spot innings. So how long will Baz be sidelined? Cash said that will be up to doctors and head athletic trainer Joe Benge. If he has to start from scratch, it could mean another six weeks of work after he resumes throwing in early April. That would likely mean rehab assignments in Durham until June. So, while everyone acknowledged this was disappointing and certainly unhappy news for Baz, it could have been a lot worse if the MRI or arthroscopic procedure had shown ligament damage in the elbow. “Without a doubt,” Cash said. “A player, a pitcher, doesn’t like to hear that because he’s coming into camp, he’s worked really hard to get himself in a spot where he was ready to go. And now he’s hit a little bit of a bump. And hopefully, that’s all it is: just a bump.” John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.