PORT CHARLOTTE — The Rays are pretty happy as it is these days, finally back on the field with spring training camps open following the lengthy lockout. Those native to the Tampa Bay area were smiling even broader with the news that Tom Brady decided to unretire and return to the Bucs. “Awesome! Wow!” Tampa-born manager Kevin Cash said. “I don’t know what the communication or ploy, whatever it was, but I’m pumped. I’m a Bucs fan, and how can you not be excited to have him back?” Seminole native Brett Phillips was, no surprise, louder and more animated in his reaction: “Let’s gooooooooo!! TB 12 is back. Oh man, I don’t know if that was always a part of his plan, but it was genius. Shout out, Tom, for your shenanigans. But I’m super pumped to have you back and in a Bucs uniform. You’re the man. You put the Buccaneers back on the map. It’s been a while. Just super pumped to have you back.” Next, the Rays would like to have Brady, who was drafted by the Expos out of high school as a catcher, out to a game at the Trop for a first pitch — or something. “He might be a little above a first pitch,” Cash said. “He might manage.” Phillips looked into one of the TV cameras and delivered a personal invite: “Tom, if you see this, come on out to the Trop. We’ll get you and your family set up and we’ll see how that that arm looks with a baseball in your hand. “I’ve seen your swing before, taking some swings in Boston. But we’ll get you down in the cage, get you fitted for some Rays gear and we’ll take care of you, my brother.” And what did Phillips think of Brady’s style? “Good swing. Actually I think he went deep in Fenway,” he said. “I did see the video where he put one right down the foul pole. So that’s pretty impressive. He’s an athlete. That draft body didn’t look like an athlete, but shoot you turned into one, Tom. I’m going to have to get that routine — and that skincare routine.” Non-roster catcher Joe Hudson, a Tampa native, said his phone blew up when the news about Brady broke Sunday. “Oh my goodness, I was texting all my friends,” Hudson said. “I was a very happy guy (Sunday). There’s a good chance I wasn’t going to watch the NFL next year. But that’s not the case anymore. So big Tom Brady fan, big Bucs fan.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.