PORT CHARLOTTE — For 99 days, Kevin Kiermaier lived with anxiety — and that is a mild description — about whether he would be traded by the Rays quickly after the lockout ended. Once teams were cleared to resume operations around 7 p.m. Thursday, he knew he should have “a certain feel” and give Rays officials time to “let the dust settle” and sort out their most pressing business. He couldn’t make it even two hours. Before 9, Kiermaier asked his representatives to reach out to the Rays. Late that night, agent Larry Reynolds spoke with baseball operations president Erik Neander. And by Friday morning, Kiermaier got the message he was hoping for: No deal is brewing, book housing in Port Charlotte and come on down for the opening of spring training. “I didn’t know what to do,” Kiermaier said Sunday. “Erik’s like, ‘You can find a spot, you’ll be here.’ So I’m happy. I know that these things might still come about throughout the season. Who knows? But I love it here. ‘I wear this ‘Tampa Bay’ across my chest and I’m proud of that. I’ve been proud ever since I’ve been here. This organization has given me the world, and I’m forever thankful for every opportunity thrown my way. I’m so happy to be back.” Still, Neander’s commitment isn’t necessarily binding, as things can change rapidly with an injury or renewed interest from another team anytime until the July 31 trade deadline. And while the Rays would rather avoid a repeat of 2018, when there were hard feelings in the clubhouse after they traded key players during spring training, it doesn’t mean they won’t still make a March deal if it works for them. Also, that there are reasons Kiermaier’s name keeps coming up in trade talks. He will be 32 in April, makes relatively big money (a team-high $12 million this year, plus a $2.5 million buyout or $13 million option for 2023), has a history of injuries and isn’t the only smooth defensive centerfielder on the roster. But the Rays value his defense too much — or haven’t found anyone willing to compensate them accordingly — to let him go. And Kiermaier so cherishes staying with the Rays, who drafted him in 2010, that he doesn’t want to think of being with the Cubs, or the Phillies (who talked with the Rays about him right before the lockout) or any other team. “If I had any way, this is the way I want it to be,” he said. “I think I’ve been very adamant about that, and I wouldn’t say it if I didn’t mean it. This organization has given me everything. You create opportunities for yourself and all that, but I’m so happy to be here and will try to do anything I can to stay as long as possible as well.” Plus, he doesn’t want to miss out on what he expects to be another really good Rays season, with a legit shot — skeptics be damned — to not only make the playoffs for a fourth straight season but to finally win it all. “I don’t think we’re the underdogs anymore,” Kiermaier said. “There still might be people who don’t expect a whole lot from us saying like, ‘Okay, I don’t know if this team can maintain this.’ But I think those people are wrong. “The winning way is going to continue here. There’s just too much talent. Our culture environment is outstanding. I hear that from guys coming over to us as well — little things like that go a long way. I expect great things out of this group.” And he doesn’t need any computer analyses or media predictions to validate his thoughts. “The ‘Kiermaier Index’ is saying the Rays have got all the pieces to make a run and we can lift that trophy,” he said. “I know that it’s very hard. It’s hard for every team to do it. But you see what kind of team we’ve been the last three years. “We’ve had kind of the same core, a couple additions every year and we’ve got experience now and guys who are really catching their groove. ... We’ve just got to go make it happen now.” And Kiermaier just wants to be part of it. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.