TAMPA — Richard Gonzmart was a disappointed skeptic when he walked into his Columbia restaurant last week to meet the city’s newly appointed police chief. The Tampa restaurateur and philanthropist wanted Mayor Jane Castor to tap Ruben “Butch” Delgado from among three finalists for the job. Like many in Tampa’s Hispanic community, Gonzmart thought Castor missed an opportunity to appoint Delgado, a West Tampa native who was serving as interim chief. Gonzmart felt strongly enough to tell City Council members where he stood. But after the meeting with Castor’s pick, former Tampa Assistant Chief Mary O’Connor, Gonzmart decided to support Castor’s decision and has reached out to tell City Council members to do the same. “It’s her decision to make, it’s mine as a citizen to raise my concerns, which I did,” Gonzmart said. “But it’s also my right to change my mind on the position I took. Speaking with Mary, she showed empathy for those that are suffering. I think she shows leadership for the men and women in the department.” That’s the sort of outcome Castor is hoping for as O’Connor meets with community members ahead of the City Council vote, which a Castor spokesperson said is now expected on March 17. Herself a former Tampa police chief who is now the chief executive of a city with a strong-mayor system, Castor ran headlong into the political reality: A lot of people have strong opinions about who should lead the police department, including the seven City Council members. The city charter requires at least four of them to vote yes on the appointment. At a meeting last month, council members voiced concerns about O’Connor and the process to pick her, and urged her to try to win over skeptics. Interviews with some local leaders and residents indicate O’Connor and the mayor are making some headway. Others say the council should vote no. Meanwhile, O’Connor has been doing the job since Feb. 8. Much of her schedule is packed with meetings like the one at the Columbia that led to Gonzmart’s support. “I feel like that’s all I need is for the community to see me and talk to me and get to know me and hear me,” O’Connor said, “and I think that that sentiment is going to echo throughout the city.” ‘We’ll give her a chance’ Four days after Castor made the appointment announcement, O’Connor appeared on Bishop Michelle B. Patty’s What’s Really Happening radio talk show on 1150-AM, WTMP. Patty is a prominent voice in the city’s Black community and her show has a devoted following. Early in the nearly 90-minute show, Patty told O’Connor that she had been hearing all week that a Black person “never would have received this opportunity that you received from the police department.” It was a reference to O’Connor’s arrest during a traffic stop in 1995, when she was a rookie Tampa police officer, after she struck a deputy in the chest and kicked patrol car windows. She was charged with battery of a law enforcement officer, obstruction and disorderly intoxication. She pleaded no contest to misdemeanor charges of battery and obstruction and a judge withheld adjudication. She was fired, later reinstated and ascended to the rank of assistant chief before retiring in 2016. She then worked as a consultant and trainer. During Patty’s show, O’Connor said she was product of “restorative justice” and the experience gave her perspective that will serve her well as chief. “From the age of 24 years old, I was able to objectively look at every situation and say any one of us could be in the back of that police car at any minute, and be involved in a very unfortunate situation,” she said. “One immature moment in time does not define our entire character.” Some in the community have voiced concern about O’Connor being a high-ranking official when the department’s officers were disproportionately stopping and citing Black bicyclists, a practice the Department of Justice concluded burdened Black people and didn’t reduce crime. Patty noted that Delgado also was with the department at the time, but O’Connor said she takes ownership of the biking citations. “The biking initiative was, in its purest intent, to try to reduce crime and try to promote safety,” she said. “The citations were the problem.” O’Connor emphasized her commitment to the six pillars outlined in President Barack Obama’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing, especially the first: building trust and legitimacy. A few people called into the show voicing skepticism or outright opposition to her appointment. “This is privilege in America,” one caller said about O’Connor’s reinstatement after her arrest. Before hanging up, the caller added: “I’ve heard people come on WTMP and smooth things over with the community, and then we see the truth.” In an interview last week, Patty said O’Connor came across as “sincere, open and transparent.” Patty said she sees O’Connor as an example of how a person can make the most of another chance. Patty also wondered if the outcome for Officer Delvin White, a beloved Black school resource officer at Middleton High School who was fired by then-Chief Brian Dugan for using the n-word, would have been different had O’Connor been chief. White successfully fought to get his job back but lost thousands in pay and was not assigned back to Middleton. “Would she have shown compassion because she’s been in that same predicament?” Patty asked. O’Connor’s arrest has raised questions about whether her ability to credibly discipline officers has been compromised, and whether she will be inclined to keep cops who shouldn’t be on the force. Patty said she believed O’Connor when she said during the radio show that she would oust officers when necessary. The Rev. Glenn Dames, Jr., senior pastor at Allen Temple AME Church in Historic Ybor, said many in his congregation are ready to give O’Connor a chance. Dames, who wanted Castor to pick the third of the three finalists, Miami Police Department Assistant Chief Cherise Gause, also was a guest on Patty’s show when O’Connor appeared and got to ask her some questions. Then, on Feb. 19, O’Connor took part in a voting rights march from Allen Temple to Perry Harvey Park and accepted an invitation to come back the next day to attend Sunday service. She came with her husband, Keith O’Connor, a former assistant chief for the police department who is now the city’s neighborhood enhancement manager, and their 15-year-old daughter. Dames said his congregation members were not shy about sharing with O’Connor their concerns about the arrest and bicycle citations. He said she was “sincere and serious, sprinkled with a lot of humility” and thinks her arrest will help her be fair and firm as chief. Dames said he knows of Black officers on the force who were given a second chance after disciplinary problems. As for the bicycle citations, Dames said: “I think she’s starting to see firsthand the harm that that did to African American communities here in Tampa.” The pastor said many in his congregation are ready to see if O’Connor “is going to carry out her words.” That includes her sentiment that the city cannot arrest its way out of its gun violence problem or take a heavy-handed approach to policing. “As I told the congregation, we’ll give her a chance and if not, we’ll go to the mayor and say, ‘hey, we did what we could but we don’t think it’s working out, let’s change.’” ‘A long way to go’ Gonzmart wasn’t just an avid Delgado supporter. He is among those who thought Castor’s search and selection process should have been more open. An active police department booster, Gonzmart said, he was disappointed he wasn’t invited to the only public meeting with what should have been all three finalists. Castor announced the invitation-only forum on the morning it was held on Jan. 26. Delgado couldn’t attend because of his father’s death. After many in the Hispanic community voiced opposition to O’Connor, Gonzmart said Castor asked him to invite several other Hispanic community leaders for a meeting with O’Connor. He said he appreciated O’Connor’s openness and her understanding why some in the community were unhappy with the selection, Castor’s process or both. Gonzmart said he’s optimistic that Delgado, who is back to serving as assistant chief of investigations and support, will eventually hold the chief post. “I’m hoping that Mary’s experience and guidance and mentoring for Butch will make him the best candidate and one of the best police chiefs in America when he gets that chance,” Gonzmart said, “and if he stays and they work together, this community and the Tampa Police Department will be better for what’s taking place right now.” Gonzmart said he hopes O’Connor meets with his friend Yvette Lewis, the president of the NAACP’s Hillsborough County branch, who has voiced skepticism about O’Connor. Lewis said Monday that O’Connor had not reached out for a meeting and that she still is hearing plenty of opposition to O’Connor. She thinks the City Council should vote no on her confirmation and encourage Castor to have a more transparent search and selection process that engages the community. “Let’s do this right,” Lewis said. Black Lives Matter Tampa co-founder Donna Davis said O’Connor “has a long way to go to convince Tampanians that as Chief of Police she would enforce the law equally across the city.” “She has yet to reach out to those of us who have the pulse of the most abused populations in Tampa,” Davis said in a statement. “Our working knowledge of the racism within the Tampa Police Department reveals that her leadership is questioned as much among rank and file police as in impoverished neighborhoods. “If she is not forthcoming on addressing the harms of colorblindness,” Davis said, “then the City Council should not approve her appointment.” In an interview this week, O’Connor said she is working to meet with as many in the community as she can and listed a number of meetings she already has had with an array of residents, leaders and groups across the city’s neighborhoods and demographics. As she’s out getting to know people, she is stressing the need for officers to put a renewed emphasis on connecting with residents. “I think we need to kind of get out of the post-COVID era and physically and verbally re-engage with the community and reach out and be at every meeting we can possibly be at,” she said. At her first forum on gun violence held in West Tampa Monday night, O’Connor heard concerns from residents about shootings downtown and requests for more security cameras. She vowed to put an emphasis on cold cases. She is attending officer roll calls and has fielded questions and concerns about equipment needs and a shortage of personnel on the street. She’s putting together a committee to develop a wellness program, starting with a focus on mentorship. And the city’s police chief appointee can now arrest people: On Monday, O’Connor passed the test required to earn her state law enforcement recertification, which had expired about seven months ago. Council member Luis Viera said the volume of feedback from constituents has decreased some and is a little more varied than the initial wave of opposition. Viera said that is perhaps due at least in part to efforts by O’Connor and the Castor administration to win hearts and minds. “She is doing what appears to be robust engagement, and this is part of their burden they have to meet,” Viera said.