Florida’s Constitution is cluttered with dictates about subjects better addressed in state laws, not the state’s governing framework. A proposal in the Legislature would attempt to remedy that by limiting citizen-led efforts to amend the state Constitution to a narrow set of issues. That would be a fine idea — except that imperious state lawmakers cannot be counted on to heed the will of the residents they purport to represent. Senate JR 1412 would severely limit the scope of revisions or amendments brought by citizen drives. If the measure were enacted, future amendments would be limited to procedural subjects or to the structure of the government or of the state Constitution. That’s what should constitute Florida’s Constitution, which is modeled off the federal Constitution but gets into more nitty-gritty about the workings of state government. The Framers were intentionally spare when crafting the nation’s founding framework. State Constitutions are and should be more detailed — to a point. But Florida’s Constitution has become overloaded with issues of the day, often because the state Legislature has refused to enact laws about subjects important to Floridians. Citizen groups then take matters in their own hands, gather thousands of petitions and force important issues to a vote via constitutional amendment. If not for years of tireless citizen-led activism, would Floridians have access to medical marijuana? Would former felons have regained the right to vote? Would millions of acres of Florida wilderness be preserved and protected from development? These are all issues that were ignored by state lawmakers, yet when voters had the chance to speak, the response was unequivocal: felons’ rights restoration carried 64% support in 2018; medical marijuana passed with 71% support in 2016; and in 2014 the Florida Water and Land Conservation Initiative soared to passage with 75% of the vote. While citizen drives can be an admirable exercise of direct participation in democracy, constitutional amendments should not replace the normal lawmaking process. That can lead to issues including the inhumane treatment of pregnant pigs being enshrined in what should be a document about the guiding principles of government. Even the phasing out of greyhound racing — which passed in 2018 — never should have been written into Florida’s Constitution. That’s because it’s hard to change the state Constitution (rightly so), and industries like pig farms and dog racing should be regulated by, well, state regulations that are responsive to changing practices and new technologies. Laws are much more nimble than constitutional amendments. A law passed one year could be tweaked the following year to address new concerns and conditions. But we usually live with constitutional amendments for a long time. The proposed resolution to limit the scope of citizen-led initiatives would need to pass the House and Senate with supermajorities and then win voter support in November before becoming law. While limiting constitutional amendments is a sound idea in principle — because it’s better for laws to be made by the Legislature — Florida isn’t ready for this change. Until lawmakers start responding to voters’ priorities, citizen initiatives provide a vital hedge against a Legislature that can’t be trusted. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.