The Weeki Wachee River needs the state’s help. The ribbon of spring-fed water in Hernando County is over loved. It requires time to heal from too much human activity. Hernando County commissioners want the state to set up a special protection area, as do most of the river’s advocates. This is a no brainer for the state. Protecting the river now will mean it can be enjoyed for decades to come. The Weeki Wachee River flows west from its eponymous spring into the Gulf of Mexico. The river’s cool waters provide respite for boaters on sweltering summer days. In the winter months, the river attracts manatees fleeing the colder gulf. For decades, the Weeki Wachee has drawn lots of watercraft — kayaks, canoes, tubers and small power boats. In recent years, too many of those river users haven’t stayed in their craft — and that’s a problem. They have anchored, moored or grounded their vessels on the river’s banks and sandbars. Some people climb onto the land to jump from trees or play on rope swings. The activities kill vegetation and cause erosion. This is an issue of scale. A handful of people disembarking each day wouldn’t be a major problem. But the 6 miles from the spring to Rogers Park near the gulf often attracts hundreds of visitors a day. The erosion has felled trees, widened the river while providing less vegetation, and dirtied the water’s trademark clarity and quality, the Times Barbara Behrendt reported last week. People love the river, but collectively they are loving it to death. For years, Hernando County has grappled with how to preserve access to the river while curtailing the erosion and other harm. Boaters are already banned from getting out of their watercraft from the spring head to the boundaries of the Weeki Wachee Springs State Park. Last week, Hernando County commissioners voted unanimously to ask the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission to establish a Springs Protection Zone, which would ban disembarking on the rest of the river to Rogers Park. Homeowners along the river would still be allowed to dock personal vessels on water adjacent to their property. The Springs Protection Zone law, which took effect early this month, was written with the Weeki Wachee River in mind. The law would give the Wildlife Conservation Commission and local law enforcement a much-needed tool to cite rule violators. Most people who use the river want to do the right thing, but they don’t always grasp the damage done by so many people trampling on the river banks and sand bars. This is an easy call, and there is little time to waste. The conservation commission should work quickly to preserve the Weeki Wachee. A protection zone will help send the message that it’s fine to love the river, even dangle your toes in the water — but stay on your watercraft. The river will thank you. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.