TAMPA — As the NHL trade deadline approaches on March 21, this is the time of year Lightning general manager Julien BriseBois likes to temper expectations about the team making an acquisition. BriseBois maintains that he will do everything in his power to best equip the Lightning to win another Stanley Cup. But he also is open about the hurdles of orchestrating a deal, including tighter salary-cap constraints and a depleted pool of trade-chip draft picks. BriseBois worked masterful trades the past two seasons to upgrade teams that went on to win Cups, acquiring forwards Blake Coleman and Barclay Goodrow two seasons ago and defenseman David Savard last season. Each year, however, it gets more difficult to pull off a deal, requiring BriseBois to be more creative. Still, if an opportunity presents itself, he says he will take it. “Nothing is off the table in terms of improving our odds of winning a Stanley Cup,” BriseBois said earlier this season. “That’s what we’re trying to do. We’re trying to win the Stanley Cup. If there’s an opportunity for me to make a decision that I feel will increase our odds of winning another Stanley Cup, then I will make that decision.” Some believed the Lightning paid too much for Coleman and Goodrow, but they teamed with Yanni Gourde to form a line that added grit that proved critical to winning the past two Cups. And after a slow start, Savard was a proven upgrade last postseason, even notching the primary assist on the Cup-clinching goal. This season, the Lightning not only have no salary-cap space, they also have no players that don’t require waivers to be sent to the minors to provide cap relief. Last year, defenseman Cal Foote could be sent down and Luke Schenn had cleared waivers, providing some help in that area at the deadline. Because of their cap constraints, the Lightning had to find trade partners willing to take on an acquired player’s salary in order to make a deal work. The Red Wings and Blue Jackets did by assuming the $1 million of Savard’s remaining salary. But that cost the Lightning precious draft picks, including last year’s first-rounder. The Lightning — who also used first-round picks in the trades to acquire Coleman and Goodrow — used later -ound selections as sweeteners in those deals. They don’t have a second-, third- or fourth-round pick in the upcoming draft, so if they deal their first-round pick, they will be left without a choice until the fifth round. If they trade their 2023 first-rounder, they won’t have a pick until the third round. Internal trade discussions began about two months ago, and coach Jon Cooper said the team doesn’t have a a wish list of specific players they hope to acquire so much as potential areas of need. “The bottom line is, we like our team, we like what we have, and if nothing happens, it’s good by us,” Cooper said. “We’ve got no problem with that. But if something came about — and it may be because somebody gets injured, or who knows what happens? — if something happened here, what type of player would be of need? “So that’s probably what gets talked about the most. And then it eventually gets narrowed down if there are certain guys that might be on the table, if it’s a fit for us, so it kind of gets tweaked down by then. So if we’re in the mix, or if we have an appetite for something, then we’ll concentrate on a little bit more.” The Lightning headed into the weekend as healthy as they’ve been all season. The return of Erik Cernak and Zach Bogosian gave the Lightning their top seven defensemen for the first time this season. Both players are important cogs to the blue line corps, but Cernak has missed 27 games this season, Bogosian 32. Among the forwards, early-season injuries to Nikita Kucherov and Brayden Point allowed rookies Taylor Raddysh and Boris Katchouk to show what they could do as regulars, while younger players Anthony Cirelli, Mathieu Joseph and Ross Colton all have handed increased responsibilities well. Savvy free-agent additions like Corey Perry and Pierre-Edouard Bellemare, signed in the offseason to team-friendly, two-year deals, already have paid off in droves. BriseBois said those were the kinds of veteran players the team otherwise might be pursuing at the deadline, but the Lightning were able to sign them under the cap in the offseason. The roster might be healthy for the time being, but anything can happen in the coming days. Leading up to the Savard trae, BriseBois said he didn’t think he’d be able to acquire the defenseman because he didn’t know if the Blue Jackets were going to be a seller at the deadline and he wasn’t sure whether he’d be able to find teams to help with salary relief. But at the time, the Lightning needed help along the blue line. Jan Rutta was on injured reserve, and Ryan McDonagh and Cernak were just returning from injuries. BriseBois made the deal, and the Lighting went on to win a second straight Cup. His aim is no different this season, even if it requires more creativity. “We have a talented group, we have a mature group. We’re trying to win a championship this year, we’re chasing a championship,” BriseBois said. “It is very hard to win a championship. Every decision we make, and every decision we’ve made up until this point is made with the intention of increasing our odds of being successful.” Nothing is off the table. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.