PORT CHARLOTTE — They have been biding their time for months. In some cases, for years. They have been on the operating table and the trainer’s room. They have been in rehab and on edge. Finally, on Monday, three Rays pitchers were back on the mound facing big-league hitters. Jalen Beeks (Tommy John surgery on his elbow in September 2020) pitched a perfect first inning against the Pirates in Monday’s 5-1 loss, while Colin Poche (Tommy John surgery in July 2020) and Jeffrey Springs (knee surgery in August 2021) pitched live batting practice on a back field before the game. “We hung out all year last year. We weren’t allowed to see anybody else, so I think we’re all happy to be back,” Beeks said. “It’s really cool just to see guys come back.” Beeks looked impressive in his short outing, hitting 94 mph with his fastball and getting strikeouts on changeups to Bryan Reynolds and Daniel Vogelbach. Springs, 29, spent the offseason rehabbing his knee in North Carolina and says the easy part was getting his arm back in shape. Springs, who was 5-1 with a 3.43 ERA and two saves before hurting his knee while covering third base, said he’ll be ready to pitch by opening day. “As long as they think my stuff’s good enough, yes, sir. That’s the goal,” Springs said. “I’ll let them make the decision on that, but my personal goal is, yeah, to be there for opening day. Out of my control, obviously, but I’m going to do everything I can do to be ready.” It’s contract time Life is about to get even busier for the Rays front office. Tuesday is the deadline for the exchange of arbitration figures and, with 13 eligible players, the Rays are tied with the Mets for the MLB lead. The Rays are likely to come to terms with more than half of their list before Tuesday afternoon’s deadline, but will almost certainly have cases that linger into the regular season due to the late start with the lockout. That’s not ideal considering the hurt feelings that often come along with the process, but general manager Peter Bendix said the Rays will do their best to make sure players understand they are valued. “We do our best to treat this in a way that (players) are not numbers on a spreadsheet, they’re not numbers on a model. They’re people,” Bendix said. “The system that determines their pay is what it is.” Glasnow getting a makeover Tyler Glasnow’s recent ankle procedure was a case of killing two surgeries with one rehab. Glasnow said he first hurt his ankle in 2015 and decided to finally get it taken care of while he was sidelined following Tommy John surgery on his elbow. “I’ve been putting it off for a long time. I hurt it in (2015) in Double-A, and there were probably some spurs and loose bodies in there as well,” Glasnow said. “And then I hurt it again in October, like mildly. It was nothing that was hindering me. I was able to throw and workout and lift. But we kind of were like, if there’s a time to do it, to remove stuff, we might as well do it now.” Glasnow has only recently begun throwing off one knee so he said the two- to three-week rehab for the ankle should not affect his timetable for getting back on the mound. Game recap Yoshi Tsutsugo, who struggled with the Rays after the team invested $15 million to bring him from Japan in 2020 and then designated him for assignment in 2021, is in camp with the Pirates. Tsutsugo left a bottle of Japanese whiskey in manager Kevin Cash’s office before Monday’s game and sought out baseball operations president Erik Neander for a pre-game hug. … Kevin Kiermaier is expected to make his 2022 debut against the Red Sox on Tuesday after missing the first four games with back and neck stiffness … Brandon Lowe and Wander Franco led off the first with back-to-back doubles, but the Rays did not score the rest of the game. Randy Arozarena has four hits in his first five at-bats of the spring. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.