CLEARWATER — The election for two City Council seats is one week away, but most of the residents who will vote in the March 15 races already have cast their ballots. As of Friday, 11,164 Clearwater mail ballots have been returned to the Pinellas County Supervisor of Elections office, accounting for 28.5 percent of residents who requested one. So far, that represents a 14-percent turnout of total registered voters in the city, according to the office. In 2018, the last time a March election included only City Council races, about 88 percent of total ballots cast were by mail before Election Day. About 17 percent of registered voters turned out to vote for the two seats in 2018. Those figures put voters in this election on track to surpass 2018 turnout. Bill Jonson, president of the League of Women Voters of North Pinellas County, said the nonpartisan group has been encouraging voter participation by advocating for mail ballots as “an easy, safe and secure way to vote.” The Supervisor of Elections advises allowing one week for ballots to be returned by mail by the deadline of March 15 at 7 p.m. In this final week, voters can drop off mail ballots in person to one of three Supervisor of Elections offices through March 15. They also can vote at their precincts from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Election Day. “Voting in a local municipal election probably has more impact on the citizens of that precinct than some of the state elections,” Jonson said. And candidates have spent significant money and effort trying to get out the vote. Lina Teixeira, an artist and community activist, and Aaron Smith-Levin, a Church of Scientology defector and critic, are nearly tied in fundraising in the race for Seat 5, being vacated by City Council member Hoyt Hamilton due to term limits. Teixeira has raised $72,823 as of March 2, the most recent treasurer report available. About 30 percent of her donations have come from businesses, mostly in Clearwater, which she said shows “strong support I have from a full range of people in the community.” Smith-Levin has raised $71,526 as of March 2, with the vast majority from individuals. About 28 percent of that money is from Clearwater residents. The rest was donated by people outside of the city and state. Jonathan Wade, pastor of St. James African Methodist Episcopal Church, who entered the Seat 5 race three months after his challengers, has raised $9,395 to date, with three quarters of that from himself. Teixeira and Smith-Levin have been the only candidates in either race to trade negative mailers. In her most recent piece sent to Republican voters last week, Teixeira called out Smith-Levin’s outside money, noting he has donors from “44 different states with over 100 from California alone.” “Don’t California my Clearwater,” the mailer reads. In a statement, Smith-Levin responded: “I’ve received campaign contributions from almost every state in the nation from folks who are horrified by Scientology’s abuse and destruction of families, and who are rooting for Clearwater to fight back against Scientology’s takeover of our city.” Since Feb. 17, Teixeira spent $5,928 on postage and paid $5,592 to the consulting firm managed by state Rep. Chris Latvala, R-Clearwater, son of former state Senator Jack Latvala. Smith-Levin spent $13,724 on direct mail through a Philadelphia-based consulting firm and $10,000 on social media ads during the same time period, according to the report. Over the past month, Smith-Levin also has run negative ads on Teixeira, accusing her of being Scientology’s “Trojan horse” for what he calls a weak stand against the church’s behavior in the city. Teixeira, who is not a member of Scientology, has called the allegation false and defamatory. Teixeira also has sent mailers to voters that attack Smith-Levin’s behavior during two altercations at bars where police responded but he was not arrested. In the race for Seat 4, City Council member David Allbritton has raised $48,070 as of March 2 in his bid for a second term, according the most recent treasurer report. About 30 percent of the donations are from businesses. Allbritton has received $3,000 from three political committees: ClearPAC, the committee affiliated with AMPLIFY Clearwater; the Pinellas Realtor Organization; and the Florida Leadership Committee chaired by Jack Latvala, the former state senator. “I know I have a strong business community support, and it’s a good mix with individuals,” Allbritton said. Since Feb. 17, he paid the Latvala consulting firm $4,733 and spent $5,149 on postage. Seat 4 candidate Maranda Douglas, a community activist and first-time candidate, has raised $23,996 to date, almost entirely from individuals, according the most recent report. She has spent most of her donations on mailers and yard signs and said she has made contact at least once with every person who has donated. “I phrase it as this is a way that you’re really involved in your community, which is helping me spread awareness of who I am,” Douglas said of fundraising. “I’m feeling really good.” As of Tuesday, retired technology manager Gerry Lee, also running for Seat 4, had not yet turned in the most recent treasurer report due for March 2. But his previous report through Feb. 16 showed him raising $5,625, with all but $625 from himself. Pinellas County March 15 elections There is no early in-person voting for municipal elections. Polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on March 15. Voters can find their precinct here: votepinellas.com/Election-Information/Find-Your-Precinct-Polling-Place Mail ballots can be dropped off at any of the three elections offices during normal business hours prior to Election Day or between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Election Day. The offices are: 315 Court St., Room 117, Clearwater; 13001 Starkey Road, Largo; and 501 First Avenue N, St. Petersburg. These cities will have elected offices and/or charter amendments on their ballots: Belleair, Belleair Beach, Belleair Bluffs, Clearwater, Madeira Beach, Oldsmar, Redington Beach, Redington Shores, St. Pete Beach, Tarpon Springs.