Share the pain at the pump Biden blocks Russian oil, natural gas, coal imports | March 9 President Joe Biden is banning importation of all Russian oil. The president is also going to release 60 million barrels to ease the pain. But gas prices are going to go up. Sometimes when your country is at war, sacrifices must be made. The pain must be shared nationally. We are part of a giant coalition in a global contest against Vladimir Putin. During World War II our parents and grandparents had to deal with all kinds of shortages. My grandfather was an air raid warden. His job was to patrol the streets and make sure nobody was letting light leak from their house. All coastal cities did that, in fear of carrier-based air attacks. There was a curfew: nobody allowed out after dark. They did that for four years — without TVs or computers. They acted like American citizens in a time of crisis. I’m embarrassed to see how today’s Americans are reacting to this crisis. Yes, gas prices are high and are going to get higher. Be glad gas isn’t being rationed as in World War II. In Ukraine, women and children are getting shelled trying to escape being killed in a war zone. Like it or not, we’re effectively at war. Let’s all deal with it as best we can and quit the whining. Let’s act like Americans. It’s not going to last forever. Jeff Cutting, Brandon Taxpayers, not just parents Florida’s ‘don’t say gay’ bill passed, headed to DeSantis amid student protests | March 8 A host of bills regulating education in Florida and other red states are touted as “parental rights” bills. In point of fact, parents do not own public schools; public schools, as the name implies, belong to the public. Since 1647, when the Massachusetts Bay Colony pass the “Old Deluder Satan Act,” all citizens — whether or not they had children — have been taxed to fund schools, based on the notion that educated children are a boon to the entire community, not merely themselves and their parents. Scream and yell as they might, parents do not have supreme rights over what schools teach and do not teach. Those rights belong to all of us. Stephen Phillips, St. Petersburg Hope over fear Florida’s ‘don’t say gay’ bill passed, headed to DeSantis amid student protests | March 8 School can be a scary place. There are different people there who look and act differently. There are different thoughts, cultures, languages, health needs, emotional needs, and intelligences that must be accommodated. A school is a place of measurement, socialization, judgment, and danger. Society brings these things with their child to a teacher and expects them to cure the world of its ignorance one student at a time. As a society we are also not content just scaring children, we must also scare their families, teachers, guidance counselors and principles. Anyone who dares speak for the small, weak, disenfranchised, uneducated, confused, or maltreated quickly become targets for societal anger. Children learn that weakness will not be tolerated, difference must be stamped out, conformity must be achieved at all costs so that those keeping us scared can keep their power. The state of Florida continues its attack on the youth of the state. It passes legislation that tries to silence the voices on those who don’t meet with the approval of those in power. Fear is used to suppress truth, anger to justify violence, and adults to bully children and their supporters. The actions of this state amount to clear and simple schoolyard bullying. We need to start voting for those who choose hope and acceptance over fear and intolerance. Stop ignoring state representative and state senate races and start looking for leadership that embraces the values of hope and safety. James Coyne, Clearwater Tax Russian profits 100% Russia’s war spurs corporate exodus, exposes business risks | March 3 Many American businesses are pulling out of Russia. The list is impressive, among them Apple, ExxonMobil, Disney, General Motors, Ford, Harley Davidson, Expedia, BP, Warner Brothers, Boeing, Pepsi, Starbucks, Coca Cola, McDonald’s, Unilever, Levi’s, IBM, Intel, AirBnB, PwC, KPMG, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, TikTok, Netflix, American Express, MasterCard, Visa, Discover, PayPal, Nike, FedEx, UPS, Google, Amazon, GoDaddy and Twitter. This doesn’t include businesses from other countries all over the world. As a tax professional I propose that the United States enact a 100 percent tax on business profits for operations stemming from Russia. Any businesses that have not pulled out because they are more focused on the bottom line than doing the right thing will have no choice. Some exceptions many be necessary for humanitarian needs like some medicines, baby formula, etc. This will also help prevent retaliation to those businesses from Russia since the businesses can claim we had no choice. It would be nice to see the government give this boost to help our businesses exit Russia. After all, what can you buy with rubles? Steven H. Osiason, Tampa Those teens’ parents vote Readers are furious with how DeSantis treated masked-up high school students | Letters, March 4 I expect an elected leader, like the governor, to guide by role-modeling and demonstrations. He represents everyone, including the parents of the high school students he berated and bullied about mask wearing at a news conference at the University of South Florida. They chose to wear a mask, demonstrating the free choice that he advocates, unless you disagree with him. Would a teacher, principal or college admission officer be permitted to speak to them this way? I seriously doubt it. This was a cheap shot. There are bigger issues on the table. He should be telling everyone his plans to improve life in Florida. We all vote, including the parents of these teens. Margaret Golay, Bradenton An uplifting story At 101, he wants to set the record straight | Feb. 16 Thank you for the wonderful account of Bernard Benedict James, a Black veteran of World War II who is 101. He deserves to have the record set straight about being imprisoned not for insubordination but basically because he was Black. Still, maybe being imprisoned saved Mr. James’ life. Nancy Ogden, St. Petersburg