You know we’ve descended into a full DEFCON 1 level of “Dueling Banjos” gooberism when the Foghorn Leghorns populating the Florida Legislature turn to Mississippi for inspiration. Isn’t this a bit like looking to Vladimir Putin for guidance on how to win a Nobel Peace Prize? During this year’s legislative mosh pit of duh, these past two months may well be known as the “What In God’s Name Were You Incredibly Bozo Elected Officials Thinking?!?!” session. In cahoots with Gov. Ron DeSantis, who is quickly becoming the Torquemada of Tallahassee, the Legislature went after the teaching of critical race theory in an endless quest to pretend slavery, Jim Crow, lynchings, red lining and assassination of civil rights advocates were merely a minor misunderstanding. Nothing to see here. Move along. Oh and “don’t say gay” in the classroom for fear of turning our precious children into Truman Capote. Dear Florida Legislature, if a kid is gay, they’re gay. You know, the whole born that way thing. But for sheer stupidity on a monumental scale rivaling the last time Donald Trump, Marjorie Taylor Greene, Matt Gaetz and Ted Cruz all dined together, nothing quite comes close to Tallahassee’s Axis of the Obtuse passing a law that would deny a woman the right to an abortion after 15 weeks of pregnancy even — even — if the fetus was the result of rape or incest. The law was modeled after a Mississippi law, which only shows: (A) The Legislature has a pretty low bar when it comes to cruelty and (B) so incapable is the Florida Legislature of arriving at an original thought, it has to rely on a state that is dumber than a sack of juleps to craft a bill. It never remotely dawned on the Republican-controlled Florida Legislature it was forcing women against their will to give birth to a child conceived during a felony? It never occurred to them the life sentence they were imposing on women to raise a child and be reminded every day how this pregnancy was the result of a sexual assault? Perhaps they did. They just didn’t care. Will Tallahassee help raise that child? Life-time child care? Day care expenses? College tuition, maybe? No, no, no. But don’t they just love the children — at least before they are born. Afterward that kiddo is flat out of luck. Take DeSantis, who tried to act more like a chintzy gin joint bouncer than a governor a few days ago when during an event in Tampa he attempted to berate and mock a group of high school students who were standing behind him wearing masks. Egad! The governor ridiculed the mask wearing calling it COVID “theater,” while also falsely claiming the face coverings do nothing to help prevent the spread of the virus. Perhaps he is right. Perhaps what the students really feared was that the governor’s doltish, juvenile bullying might be contagious. To be fair, at least the attempt by the governor to browbeat the students was decisive, a far cry from the dithering DeSantis who recently failed to immediately denounce a group of neo-Nazis running around Orlando attacking a Jewish student and hanging anti-Semitic slogans off a highway bridge. That he had to think about for a while before deciding that taking a stand against Nazis was probably an OK thing to do. What is it about Florida pols, who after drinking the waters of Tallahassee are transformed into frothing dingbats who couldn’t find their keisters even with the help of Edmund Hillary, Neil Armstrong and Google Maps? This unique talent for uttering dunderheaded balderdash followed Florida’s junior Sen. Rick Scott, R-Motherboard, to Washington. Days ago, the former governor put out a vital manifesto of lunacy — an 11-point plan to make America servile again. Scott would increase taxes on lower income Americans, sunset all federal statutes after five years and rename the phony border wall after Donald Trump. The Naples Avatar also claimed the “militant left” wants to end the American experiment and replace it with a “socialist utopia.” And then Scott went further, asserting those people who claimed his proposal was little more than a teaming pile of hooey were nothing but cowards. It was right about then that Republican minority leader Sen. Mitch McConnell essentially called Scott’s plan a steaming pile of hooey. At last! Bipartisan agreement. Hope springs eternal.