FORT MYERS — Chris Mazza was a key piece of evidence for the players association last month. The 32-year-old right-hander was a poster boy for what the players said was a system that allowed teams to unfairly abuse the minor-league options rule. Mazza was recalled and sent back to the minors 11 different times for the Rays. The union eventually fought for a reform that will limit the number of times a player can be optioned in any season to five. After the fifth option, a player would be subject to waivers anytime he was sent to the minors. The irony is that while Mazza was on a perpetual round trip between Triple-A Durham and Tampa Bay, he was establishing himself as a major-league talent for the first time. After compiling a 5.74 ERA in his first 58 innings in the big leagues with the Mets, Red Sox and Rays, Mazza had a 1.72 ERA with 18 strikeouts in 15.2 innings in his final eight appearances. Mazza, who is not on the 40-man roster and thus was allowed to begin minor league spring training during the lockout, started the Rays’ first spring game Friday and pitched two scoreless innings in a 7-6 loss to the Red Sox. “He looked good. Mazza is going to play a big factor for us this year,” manager Kevin Cash said. “The way he finished last year it looks like … he was the same guy. He can really do some big things for us.” Mazza said the transformation came last April when he was on the injured list and was working out with former Rays reliever Chaz Roe, who taught him the grip he uses on his wipeout slider. “We were both rehabbing at the same time and working on that slide and talking a lot about grips,” Mazza said. “(I) started throwing it very similar to how he threw his and all of a sudden, it started moving like 18 to 20 inches. I was like, ‘Okay, this is going to play.’ From there, everything just kind of took off.” Unlike last season, Mazza has no minor-league options remaining, which means if he is added to the big-league roster he will be subject to waivers if the Rays try to send him back to Durham. Game recap Using a lineup of almost entirely minor-league players, the Rays blew a late lead to the Red Sox on Friday. Bobby Dalbec homered in the fourth for Boston and Christian Koss hit two homers, including a walkoff with two out in the ninth off Joel Peguero … Ford Proctor, who can play catcher, second, shortstop and third, hit a three-run pinch-hit homer. “He can play wherever he wants if he hits like that,” Cash said … Vidal Brujan, who is attempting to make the team as a utility player, made two highlight-worthy plays at third base … The Rays are expected to use most of their regular position players in their home opener against the Braves on Saturday. MLB pitchers will not likely appear in games until next week. Rays get left-handed bat Tampa Bay acquired left-handed-hitting outfielder Luke Raley from Los Angeles for minor-league pitcher Tanner Dodson. Raley could be insurance for the Rays if Austin Meadows is traded. While he hit .182 overall for the Dodgers in 2021, Raley hit .240 with two homers in 50 at-bats against right-handed pitching. Dodson was a second-round pick for the Rays in the 2018 draft as a two-way player, but is now focusing on pitching. He went a combined 5-2 with a 3.20 ERA between Class A and Double-A last season. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.