PORT CHARLOTTE — The re-scheduling of the two previously canceled season-opening series at Boston and Toronto will make a tough September/early October for the Rays even more vexing. In a revised schedule being finalized by Major League Baseball, two of the Rays’ games against the Jays will be made up by turning a planned three-game visit Sept. 12-14 into a five games in four days set, with a doubleheader on Sept. 13 and a single game added Sept. 15 on what had been an off-day. The other game to be made up at Toronto will be part of a doubleheader on July 2, turning a four-game series into five. The series at Boston will be tacked on at the end of the season, with single games Oct. 3-5. The net result is a stretch of 33 games in 35 days starting Sept. 2 against mostly expected contenders. The Rays have nine games against the Jays; six against the Astros, Red Sox and Yankees; and three each with the Indians and Rangers. Start times for numerous games are also being revised due to scheduling, travel and broadcast issues. Corey Kluber leads the way For all the concern about the sudden start to spring training and the condensed schedule, Rays pitchers have looked pretty good so far in limited action. Veteran free agent Corey Kluber led the way to the next level Tuesday, throwing two sharp “innings” of live batting practice. “Klubes was probably the highlight to see out there,” manager Kevin Cash said. “He looked very good, just standing behind (him) — a lot of late action, and where the velocity was, it’s going to get to where he pitches at. But it’s pretty impressive, again, how much work they’ve done leading up. You don’t just look like that with just showing up, so they’ve worked hard.” Most of the big-league pitchers will throw live batting practice by the end of this week and move into games by the middle of next week, with minor-leaguers handling the first three games, which start Friday. Miscellany Centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier remained a limited participant in drills, explaining that his neck and upper back stiffened up Saturday when he was packing for camp at his Tampa home and hasn’t calmed down enough yet. He took swings in the cage and shagged balls. … A meeting with teams and league officials to discuss the use of minor-league players and potentially shortening spring games will be held Thursday. ... Two new faces shagging balls in the outfield were Cash’s 9-year-old son, J.D., and hitting coach Chad Mottola’s 16-year-old son, Luke. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.