Now that the NFL combine has ended and terms such as route leverage and hand twitch have re-entered our collective consciousness, speculation will percolate as to whom the Bucs will choose with the 27th overall pick in April. Did the four-day showcase of 40-yard dash times and formal interviews, bench presses and broad jumps offer some insight into whom Tampa Bay might be targeting? Possibly. At the very least, enough measurements and analyses (from draft intelligentsia) were collected to make some educated guesses. So we’re guessing away, with six combine participants who shape up as solid candidates for the Bucs’ initial pick (unless they trade it). Bear in mind, these aren’t necessarily the players deemed the best at their respective positions, but the ones we think will remain available at No. 27 and make the most sense for Tampa Bay. RB Breece Hall, Iowa State Size: 5-11/217 Combine superlative(s): 4.39 40-yard dash, 40-inch vertical jump Currently, Ke’Shawn Vaughn remains the only Bucs running back under contract for 2022. Should Leonard Fournette be lured elsewhere in free agency, this two-time Big 12 Offensive Player of the Year — who posted back-to-back 1,400-yard rushing seasons — projects as a solid replacement. A sturdy package of speed, soft hands (82 career catches) and swagger, Hall told reporters he was the best running back at the combine, then delivered the best vertical jump and sixth-fastest 40 time at his position. G Zion Johnson, Boston College Size: 6-3/312 Combine superlative(s): 5.18 40-yard dash, 32 reps on bench press (225 pounds) Ali Marpet’s retirement — combined with the free-agent status of Alex Cappa, Ryan Jensen and Aaron Stinnie — suddenly makes the offensive line a glaring draft need. Johnson, a versatile behemoth with boundless upside (he didn’t play football until high school), may fit the Bucs’ needs ideally. His 32 bench-press reps were most of any offensive lineman that participated at the combine. “I think he’s a Day 1 starting guard in the NFL,” veteran league analyst Charles Davis said. TE Trey McBride, Colorado State Size: 6-4/246 Combine superlative(s): 18 reps on bench press, 33-inch vertical jump If Gronk retires as expected and former first-rounder O.J. Howard moves on (also expected), the Bucs are in a world of hurt at tight end. McBride, the 2021 Mackey Award winner, possesses pillowy hands (90 catches in 2021 alone) and a passion for blocking. Sound familiar? G Dylan Parham, Memphis Size: 6-3/311 Combine superlative(s): 4.93 40-yard dash Another versatile option for the Bucs. Parham played three different spots at Memphis, earned all-conference honors as a right guard in 2021 and experimented at center in the Senior Bowl. Though not quite as coveted as Johnson, his versatility and 50 collegiate starts make him a viable prospect at a position of need. WR Christian Watson, North Dakota State Size: 6-4/208 Combine superlative(s): 4.36 40-yard dash; 38.5-inch vertical jump; 11-foot, 4-inch broad jump Though the Bucs need a slot receiver, drafting a Mike Evans clone — if not necessarily a complement — could create intriguing possibilities on the outside. The son of former Chiefs safety Tim Watson, this big-play extraordinaire (20.4 yards per catch at NDSU) earned a max-99 athleticism score with his combine performance, according to NFL Next Gen stats. No receiver of his height previously had achieved a maximum score. And did we mention that Watson’s a Plant High alumnus? DT Perrion Winfrey, Oklahoma Size: 6-4/290 Combine superlative(s): 4.89 40-yard dash Bucs free agents William Gholston, Steve McLendon and Ndamukong Suh are 30, 36 and 35, respectively. Winfrey, the Senior Bowl MVP (two sacks, three tackles for loss) whose 40 time at the combine was third-fastest for his position, seems an ideal candidate to launch a youth movement. His sparkling postseason followed a breakthrough senior season (11 tackles for loss, 5.5 sacks, two QB hurries). • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.