The Rays are on the road again today, heading south to face the Twins in Fort Myers with first pitch at 1:05 p.m. Rain is in the forecast for much of the day, but there appears to be a window for the game to be played, though maybe not in its entirety. Drew Rasmussen will start for the Rays in his first spring appearance. He is coming off a solid season in which he was acquired from the Brewers and graduated from the minors to the bullpen to the rotation. Several relievers expected to play key roles for the Rays this season are slated to make their spring debuts, including Colin Poche and Jeffrey Springs (who are coming back from injuries), returnees Pete Fairbanks and Andrew Kittredge and newcomer Jason Adam. Also Thursday: • Outfielder Randy Arozarena, who won the ALCS MVP award in 2020 and AL Rookie of the Year last year, said he was not upset to have his 2022 contract renewed by the Rays at $716,600, which is just $16,600 over the new major-league minimum, and let agent Scott Boras handle it. “That’s just the process of the game,” Arozarena said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I’m just happy to be here and have an opportunity to still be here.” • Reliever Luke Bard, who pitched parts of 2018-20 with the Angels (3-3, 5.05 in 46 games) signed a minor-league deal with an invite to camp. Bard missed all of 2021 recovering from hip surgery but said he is fully healthy and throwing well. Bard, 31, is the younger brother of longtime big-leaguer Daniel Bard. “We’ve liked (him) in the past,” manager Kevin Cash said. “He’s shown some good stuff, able to strike some guys out. Just get him in camp, get a gauge where he’s at. He says he’s ready to go. So we’ll fit him into the mix.” • Starter Shane Baz said his elbow is already feeling better from the arthroscopic surgery to remove a loose body and he was relieved the discomfort he felt was nothing more. But he was disappointed that he won’t be able to help the team at the start of the season. Baz said there is no set timetable for his return, but he has to go two to three weeks without throwing. He then will need to build his arm back up, which could push a return into June. Here is the Rays’ lineup: And for the Twins: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.