Stop the saws Preserve home rule and our trees My block lost three mature trees in the past four days. Two of them were on the “grand tree” list. One was diseased, the others were inconvenient. After all, oak leaves are messy this time of year. Our ”green” St. Petersburg lost total protection of our trees when Tallahassee overrode our right to do so. St. Petersburg sent a resolution to Tallahassee in support of SB 596, which died in committee in last year’s session of the Legislature. If it had passed, it would have repealed the provision of 2019′s HB 1159, which allows grand trees to be cut down if an arborist or landscape architect signs off that the tree presents a danger. That law has been disastrous for local municipal tree protection efforts. So here we are in 2022 ,and we are still fighting to protect one of our greatest resources from indiscriminate removal. Sound the alarm, raise your voices, and stop the saws. Heidi Sumner, St. Petersburg Turn on a light Inspired by soldier’s death, Clearwater woman helps | March 4 I remember how so many people used to turn on lights and cheer for health care workers early in the pandemic and was thinking that perhaps we could do the same for the people of the Ukraine. I for one intend to turn on some window lights every night at 6. Peace for Ukraine. Donald J. Cunningham, St. Petersburg A big thank you You helped in my time of need My husband and I want to thank the good Samaritans, first responders and staff at Palms of Pasadena emergency room for their kindness, concern and care after I fell in a parking lot last week in Treasure Island. I don’t know the names of the woman and two men who stopped their cars and helped me off the pavement and onto a park bench and called 911. The paramedics were very capable and comforting and made sure I was going to get further treatment at the local hospital. Everyone we met at Palms was professional and kind and got me patched up and back on my feet in no time. We are visiting here, and we felt very well taken care of by all. Many thanks to the wonderful folks here in Treasure Island. You are all very special. Janet Coates, Bristol, Rhode Island