TAMPA — Shortly after Brandon Hagel received word that he was being traded to the Lightning from the Blackhawks on Friday, he already was getting text messages from his new teammates. Several Lightning players — captain Steven Stamkos and defensemen Victor Hedman and Ryan McDonagh among them — welcomed him aboard. “Before I even got here, they’re telling me it’s a winning mindset here, it’s a championship mindset,” Hagel said. “And there’s nothing more you want to hear than that. When guys are texting you that, it gets you that much more excited. … Obviously, they believe in me here. They wanted me. I’m glad I’m here now.” In winning two straight Stanley Cups, the Lightning have done a good job assimilating their trade deadline acquisitions into the team dynamic. But for any player who is traded, whether he is young or a veteran, it can be a mind scramble. There’s the realization that major life and career changes are coming, along with the adjustment process and expectations that come from joining a contender at the deadline. Hagel, 23, said having veteran players reach out to him calmed his nerves. “It doesn’t matter how old you are or how long you’ve been in the league,” said McDonagh, 32, who came to the Lightning in a deadline deal with the Rangers in 2018. “When you get traded, it’s a shock, a big initial shock. You kind of have this vision of being trusted by your organization and playing a big role there, and then here you are switching teams. So you reach out to (newcomers), you’d let them know, ‘Hey, we’re excited.’ And we truly are.” General manager Julien BriseBois gave up a significant haul to get Hagel and fit him under the salary cap: first-round picks in 2023 and 2024 and rookie forwards Boris Katchouk and Taylor Raddysh. Hagel has two years left on his contract, then can be a restricted free agent, which means he could be under team control for two years after that. “We’re getting down to the wire here as far as the season goes and trying to ramp up and get our game where it needs to be, and (Hagel’s) going to be a big part of it,” McDonagh said. Coach Jon Cooper also spoke to Hagel after the trade. He said he didn’t want to put too much on him because Hagel’s “head was spinning.” Cooper said he emphasized to Hagel to keep playing the resilient, in-your-face, versatile two-way game that made the Lightning covet him. Hagel came to the Lightning with 21 goals and 16 assists, and can play on both special-teams units. “Julien’s done an excellent job of being able to identify and find players that will fit with what we’re doing here,” Cooper said. “(Hagel is) not going to be Barclay Goodrow or Blake Coleman or David Savard (acquired at the past two trade deadlines). He’s not going to be those guys. We just want him to be Brandon Hagel.” Hagel arrived in Tampa shortly after noon Saturday. He played that night against the Rangers and had to learn on the fly, adjusting to a new system while playing on the left wing lined up with center Ross Colton and Mathieu Joseph. “They are unbelievable guys, honestly,” Hagel said of Colton and Joseph. “They were really talkative, talking to me, helping me out. Even in the dressing room between periods, they were helping me.” Hagel, who logged 10:40 of ice time on 16 shifts, fit in well on the forecheck. “I loved him,” Cooper said “This is a tough game for him to play in because of all the penalties (the Lightning were on the penalty kill for nearly 11 minutes). He’s probably going to find his way onto our penalty kill at some point here, but the shifts we saw were great.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.