Marlon Santos curled in a spectacular shot in the 86th minute to give Legion FC a 1-1 tie with the Rowdies in their regular-season opener Sunday at Protective Stadium in Birmingham, Ala. Sebastian Dalgaard’s 34th-minute goal gave Tampa Bay the lead, and he might have made it 2-0 if not for a solid save by Birmingham’s Matt Van Oekel in the 66th minute. However, Birmingham, which held the bulk of possession time, was rewarded with a draw thanks to Santos. The talented Brazilian took a pass from Prosper Kasim 5 yards outside the top of the penalty box and quickly turned and placed a perfect shot into the upper right corner past fully stretched goalkeeper CJ Cochran. “The boys will be disappointed; we’re normally so good at seeing out those three points. But this is not a bad point to start the season,” said Rowdies head coach Neill Collins. “I think it was going to take a goal of that quality to break us down.” Legion FC had the third-best record in the Eastern Conference last season. Santos, a substitute, scored seven goals for Tulsa last season. Two Rowdies newcomers nearly scored the winner in stoppage time. Kyle Greig was able to get off a low strike in the 80th minute despite having his vision shielded as he was engaged with a Legion defender. Then, Jake Areman hit a left-footed strike that Van Oekel got just enough of his body on for the game’s biggest save. Tampa Bay nearly got the shutout despite losing new central defender Robert Castellanos to an ankle sprain in the 13th minute. Laurence Wyke slotted back to defense while another new Rowdie, Junior Etou, entered the midfield. “Laurence is a very versatile player. He was defending very well,” Collins said. Recent backline addition Timmy Mehl was not selected for the active squad and was left home but likely would be a candidate should Castellanos miss more time. Right back Jordan Scarlett left for a few minutes after a collision with Cochran and Enzo Martinez in the second half. Dalgaard’s goal was made possible by some hustle by Sebastian Guenzatti, who won a battle near the Legion penalty box and while still prone slotted the ball to Yann Ekra. From there Ekra surged into the box, slammed on the brakes and switched to his left foot for a lofted pass, which Dalgaard took well off the bounce for the score. Cochran, in his first start for Tampa Bay, made a clutch stop in the first half as the dangerous Martinez was ready to pounce on a rebound. The Rowdies held a 9-5 shot advantage thanks to three stoppage-time efforts. The game also featured eight yellow cards, five against Legion FC, which racked up 18 fouls. “I thought CJ had an excellent game. I thought he brought a real calmness, came (out) for crosses to help with those through balls really well on a fast surface,” said Collins. Birmingham was making its regular-season debut at Protective Stadium, which sports an artificial turf.