TALLAHASSEE — A federal judge ruled that multiple parts of a voting law signed by Gov. Ron DeSantis last year are unconstitutional, striking down provisions that limit the use of ballot drop boxes and impose requirements on third-party voter registration groups. U.S. District Judge Mark Walker on Thursday ordered the state not to enforce parts of Senate Bill 90, passed by Republican lawmakers last year, including: In a 288-page ruling, Walker wrote that the defendants in the lawsuit, which include Secretary of State Laurel Lee and Attorney General Ashley Moody, argued during a two-week bench trial that the law “makes minor prophylactic changes to the election code.” The plaintiffs, including the League of Women Voters of Florida and the NAACP, argued that the bill “runs roughshod over the right to vote, unnecessarily making voting harder for all eligible Floridians, unduly burdening disabled voters, and intentionally targeting minority voters — all to improve the electoral prospects of the party in power,” Walker wrote. “Having reviewed all the evidence, this Court finds that, for the most part, Plaintiffs are right,” Walker wrote. Walker, who was appointed to the bench in Tallahassee by former President Barack Obama, has ruled against Republican lawmakers on numerous issues over the years. DeSantis’ office did not immediately respond to a request for comment. This is a developing story. Check back for updates. • • • Tampa Bay Times Florida Legislature coverage Sign up for our newsletter: Get Capitol Buzz, a special bonus edition of The Buzz with Emily L. Mahoney, each Saturday while the Legislature is meeting. Watch the Florida Legislature live: The Florida Channel, a public affairs programming service funded by the Legislature, livestreams coverage at thefloridachannel.org. Its video library also archives coverage for later viewing. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news from the state’s legislative session. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.