PORT CHARLOTTE — A few hours before the Rays’ Grapefruit League home opener Saturday, and less than 24 hours after throwing his first live batting practice of the spring, Drew Rasmussen broke down a bunch of developments. Most notable was the fact that Rasmussen comes into the spring for the first time as a starter, a situation that’s led him to think a little differently — albeit without the benefit of talking with pitching coach Kyle Snyder during the lockout. “Snyder did a really good job of getting out ahead of (the lockout),” Rasmussen said. “We had a lot of conversations in the month of November leading up to December and we had pretty good plan laid out before Dec. 1. I just stuck to the plan.” The plan involved working out and throwing on his own around his home in Phoenix, Ariz. Specifically, it meant increasing his repertoire from a high-90s fastball and a slider, which he threw about 95 percent of the time. “Out of the pen (where he resided before being traded from Milwaukee last June) I was a two-pitch guy,” said Rasmussen, who was moved into the starting rotation soon after he landed in Tampa Bay. “After getting into the rotation I was working in the change-up and curveball a little bit. So throwing everything more and getting more feel with my third and fourth offering was the goal of the offseason.” On Friday, everything looked and felt pretty good for Rasmussen in a couple of “innings” of live batting practice. Rays manager Kevin Cash said Rasmussen’s level of workload is “a main topic of conversation,” partly because of the shortened spring season. “From (Friday’s) live BP we were very encouraged with everything,” Cash said of the 26-year-old who has had two Tommy John surgeries but now appears stronger than ever. “He’s worked on a breaking ball and he’s fine-tuning that slider and getting that sharper. That’s been a point of emphasis.” Overall, Rasmussen said he’s thrilled with how the Rays handle their pitchers. “Getting traded over here was really good for me with the philosophy of throwing strikes,” said Rasmussen, who after transitioning from the bullpen last season went 3-0 with a 1.93 ERA in 10 starts. “Not to nit-pick the strike zone and go right after hitters. You can use a lot more of the plate than what I had thought. You get to the big leagues and you run into the thought of how can I get these guys out. “Just how I used my stuff helped lead to a lot of success. I think the plan we have in place works with my personality really well.” Wander parks far away On Friday, Wander Franco made the mistake of parking his white Range Rover in a spot assigned to baseball operations manager Erik Neander. The mistake led to a nationally-publicized prank in which Rays manager Kevin Cash moved Franco’s car into the outfield grass at the Charlotte Sports Complex during morning warmups — making the car a “target for batting practice.” Everyone had a good laugh, and on Saturday Franco said he also learned his lesson. Where did Franco park Saturday morning? “Really far away in the back of the parking lot,” Franco said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Again, more laughter, which Franco, a 21-year-old star who recently signed a $182 million contract extension, said he always welcomes. “It was just the confusion,” Franco said. “I honestly I didn’t know that was his spot. But I had fun with it. Everyone had fun. If everyone is happy then I’m happy and that helps everybody out.” Game recap Starting a lineup representative of what the Rays will look like during the regular season (minus the pitchers), Tampa Bay tied the visiting Braves 4-4 through nine innings when the game was called. Highlights included a towering two-run homer by Mike Zunino (who hit 33 homers last year), a couple of nifty double plays by second baseman Brandon Lowe and shortstop Wander Franco in the first two innings, and an RBI triple by infielder Tristan Gray. “It was awesome to see all the guys out there and it was a beautiful day with all the fans out and I am very encouraged with how physically in shape everyone looks,” Cash said. High on Raley Rays general manager Peter Bendix said the team has been interested for years in acquiring left-handed hitting outfielder Luke Raley, who the Rays got from Los Angeles on Friday in a trade for minor-leaguer Tanner Dodson. “(Raley) is big, he’s strong, he’s fast and he’s got a lot of power,” Bendix said. “We think he’s a pretty good defender in the outfield and has some experience at first base.” Raley hit .182 for the Dodgers last year but had a .240 average with two homers in 50 at-bats against right-handed pitching. Phoenix rising Former USF Bull, and current Durham Bull, Phoenix Sanders got the start Saturday afternoon and was solid in two innings of work, allowing no runs on one hit with one walk and one strikeout. More importantly, Sanders — a non-roster invitee the past two years but not this season because of limited roster space in the shortened spring — had a fulfilling experience throwing with the big-league team in front of an exuberant crowd of 3,638. “I felt super comfortable,” said Sanders, who last year went 5-2 with a 3.38 ERA in 64 innings for the Durham triple-A team. “It was my first time throwing to (all-star catcher Zunino) and that was really, really great to do. He makes you feel super comfortable out there. Also fortunate to have Wander behind me turning (two) double plays. “We’ve been on the back (minor league) fields for a couple of weeks so to get out there with the crowd, that was awesome.” Sanders, 26, left USF in 2017 and was drafted by the Rays in the 10th round with the 289th overall pick. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.