TAMPA — By all indications, the SEC tournament’s commencement Wednesday also marked a conclusion. Of Tom Crean’s languid four-season stint as Georgia coach. Crean’s team — like his tenure — never found a rhythm Wednesday. Dreadful offensively and ineffective against Vanderbilt’s long-range barrage, the Bulldogs (6-26) dug a 21-point halftime hole en route to an 86-51 loss at Amalie Arena. Crean, not expected back in Athens for a fifth season, watched his team lose for the 18th time in 19 league games. If his time in Athens is over, he’ll end with a 47-75 mark. “Anything with my situation, it’s got to go to the athletic department,” said Crean, 15-57 in SEC games at Georgia. “It’s not anything I spend a lot of time on. I just coach my team every day, that’s where my focus is.” On Wednesday, his team seemed to lack focus, not to mention efficiency and a shooting touch. Vanderbilt (16-15), close to full strength for the first time in roughly a month, hit 16 of its 41 3-point attempts and shot nearly 50 percent (32 of 68) from the floor overall. Commodores All-America candidate Scotty Pippen Jr., whose Hall of Fame dad watched from behind the Commodores bench, had 13 points — one fewer than Georgia’s team — at halftime as Vandy built a 35-14 lead by intermission. Georgia went 2 of 17 from 3-point range, managed only six offensive rebounds, and finished with more turnovers (15) than field goals (14). Adding insult to the rout, Pippen played only five second-half minutes as Commodores coach Jerry Stackhouse emptied his bench. “Everybody probably saw the news (about Crean) and what possibly comes down the pike, and for him to come out and still coach his team, my hat’s off to Tom,” Stackhouse said. “It’s a tough situation to be in, but I thought his guys came out there and played for him.” In Wednesday’s opener, 12th-seeded Missouri used an early second-half surge to pull away for a 72-60 triumph against Ole Miss, its third win against the injury-besieged Rebels this season. The Tigers (12-20) face fifth-seeded LSU today at 2 p.m. The teams played to a halftime tie at 32 before Missouri opened the second with a 20-4 run. The Rebels didn’t hit an outside shot in the second half until guard Matthew Murrell’s jumper with 13:20 remaining. Missouri, meantime, shot 54 percent from the floor — scoring 40 points inside the paint — and finished with a 30-19 advantage on the defensive glass. “It’s not easy beating a team three games in a row,” said Tigers coach Cuonzo Martin, whose club held the Rebels to an average of 60.3 points in the three matchups. “I thought we did a great job of getting in the paint. That was one of our biggest emphasis, to get the ball in the paint, but also to get out in transition. Forty points in the paint against a team like that that plays a physical brand is impressive.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.