PORT CHARLOTTE — Spring training feels like it is still getting started. Only two of the Rays’ projected five starting pitchers have worked in a game, several veteran relievers made their first appearances in the past few days and most of the core-position players have barely gotten to double-digit at-bats. But spring training is almost over. The Rays have only 12 exhibitions left, and they start playing for real in just two weeks, with an April 8 opener against the Orioles at Tropicana Field. “It’s different,” said centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier, in one of the more polite descriptions of the situation. Because of the lockout, spring training started nearly a month late, the schedule for workouts and games was compressed from six weeks to 3½ and the start of the regular season was pushed back a week. Baseball’s natural clock is off, and all involved are trying to figure out how much more they can do— safely — in less time. On the field, players and pitchers need to be stretched out to regular-season workloads, in terms of how much and how often they get on the field. Off the field, staff and executives need to make evaluations on talent and health and then decisions on jobs, though the Rays don’t have many open — a couple on the bench and in the bullpen. “Two weeks is not that long a time,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “We don’t know exactly how we’re going to do all this yet.” Pitchers will be the priority and handled with care, as the Rays want to avoid the run of injuries that seemed related to the similarly condensed build-up to the COVID 19-delayed 2020 season. The hardest part looks to be determining workloads. Starters, for example, probably will be limited to five innings and 75 pitches at least the first time through the rotation (which actually isn’t that far off the Rays’ typical unorthodox strategy). But that still puts more of a demand on the relievers, some of whom will be slotted for multi-inning duty every few days and others for short appearances over multiple days. Adding to the challenge is that several of the relief candidates are coming off injuries, meaning they need even more special handling. While it will help that rosters will be expanded to 28 (with an unlimited number of pitchers) during the first month, the Rays have the added challenge of starting the season playing on 13 straight days (and likely in cold weather during a week-long visit to Chicago). “It is going to be a little bit different. It’s different for all of us,” pitching coach Kyle Snyder said. “We’ll have to do what we can through the first couple of weeks to allow the starters to continue to build on a normal progression and be creative like we always are, being mindful of the usage and workload of the bullpen.” The position players are easier to get ready, as most report to camp in game shape to play, some suggesting the abbreviated spring actually may help, eliminating the usual lull they feel near the end. While they have the benefit of facing live pitching every day in minor-league exhibitions and batting practice sessions for their pitchers, there is something to be said for being in game situations, as well as getting reps  in the field, running the bases and other seemingly little things. For example? “Having spikes on for four or five hours a day,” infielder Taylor Walls said. The spring, veteran catcher Mike Zunino said, “definitely feels fast.” The challenge is getting ready quickly without rushing into the season. “We have to remember what it is — it’s going to be a marathon. It’s still a 162-game season,” he said. “It’s not crazy like how the COVID year was when it was only 60 games. “So, I think it’s trying to keep your eyes on the finish line and not thinking that it’s a sprint right away and be smart and try to keep guys as healthy as we can.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.