Midway through their six-game road trip, the Lightning are struggling. For the first time this season, the Lightning suffered consecutive regulation losses, falling 4-1 to the Flames Thursday night at the Saddledome in Calgary. In a matchup of two of the NHL’s top teams, yet another slow start again saw Tampa Bay chasing the game. Even though it regrouped, it wasn’t enough against a surging Calgary team that leads the Pacific Division. The Lightning came back from an early one-goal deficit, but two Flames goals in the final minute of the second period were the difference. When Tampa Bay left Johnny Gaudreau open in the third period, he completed his hat trick and sent the Lightning to a three-goal loss. Here’s what we learned from the game: The Lightning look like a tired team When they’re at their best — and sometimes when they’re not — the Lightning have the rare ability to will themselves to victory. No team has played more hockey than Tampa Bay over the past two seasons, and these are the dog days of the regular season — especially for a squad in the midst of 11 games in 11 different cities. There’s a lot of travel, different hotels and numerous time changes. What this team seems to be battling more than anything is mental fatigue. Falling behind early is one thing, but the way the Lightning lapsed in allowing two goals in the final minute of the second period was another. Tampa Bay isn’t defending its net well. It’s a step slow getting there. Gaudreau hurt the Lightning early in the game by positioning himself below the goal line and bouncing a shot off goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy to put Calgary ahead. Then, after a Zach Bogosian turnover, Mikael Backlund gained inside position on Pierre-Edouard Bellemare for an open redirection in front of the net. Give the Flames credit. They were sound defensively, and they pushed the Lightning to the outside, preventing them from getting many good looks on the rush. Calgary is a hot team, winning 15 of its last 18 games, so Tampa Bay clearly caught the Flames at a bad time. Special teams flaws were exposed The Lightning fell behind after going on the penalty kill twice in the first seven-plus minutes of the game. Gaudreau made Tampa Bay pay by scoring off the back of Vasilevskiy to give Calgary a 1-0 lead. The Lightning are one of the most-penalized teams in the league, and that’s been the case for a while, but committing back-to-back infractions so early put undue pressure on the penalty-kill unit. At the other end, the Lightning couldn’t capitalize on a four-minute power play that stretched from the end of the first period into the start of the second, nor six minutes with a man-advantage. Calgary had something to do with that. The Flames’ penalty-killing unit is a bear, and they made entering the zone a challenge for the Lightning by stacking the blue line. Once Tampa Bay eventually entered the zone, it had some chances but couldn’t capitalize. The Lightning had their opportunities What made the second period most frustrating for the Lightning was that they seemed to tilt the ice for 19 of the 20 minutes. Despite playing with just 11 forwards, Tampa Bay had much better flow while mixing combinations. Alex Killorn scored while skating with Ross Colton and Mathieu Joseph. And Colton, who fed Killorn in the front of the net, had a great game. He might have been the Lightning’s best skater. The Lightning had 20 shot attempts (13 on goal) in the period, including quality looks that went just wide. Nikita Kucherov, clearly attempting to rebound from a minus-4 game Tuesday in Winnipeg, led the team with six shots on goal — which usually leads to good things — but Kucherov sailed a few attempts wide of the net that he’d typically bury. Since totaling eight points over a four-game stretch, he has no goals and is minus-7 in his last five. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.