Negotiate drug prices State of the Union address | March 1 Americans are tired of turning on the news and hearing for the thousandth time about Democratic in-fighting. It’s time to focus on the items they do agree on — like lowering drug prices. There are enough votes in the House and Senate to pass drug reforms now, and Congress should do it. Lowering drug prices through negotiations is a commonsense way to make medicines affordable for people on Medicare. We know it works because we already negotiate prices in other big health care programs like Veterans Affairs and Medicaid. There’s a track record that shows that these other programs pay half of what Medicare pays for drugs. I’m a veteran, so I know from first-hand experience that getting my prescriptions from the VA means I don’t have to skip doses, ration the medicine, incur debt or figure out what I’m going to go without to afford the drugs I need. Everyone should have that peace of mind. Michael Kanter, Tampa A great race weekend Back in focus: Grand Prix of St. Petersburg | Feb. 28 I’d like to publicly thank all those who helped make last weekend at the Grand Prix a great and peaceful success. I attended the matinee Star Wars concert that the Florida Orchestra presented and drove to the grounds of the Mahaffey Theater just as the race attendees were leaving. Everyone involved helped make it a peaceful entry despite all the foot and car traffic. From the signage directing rerouted traffic, to the police in the streets and on the grounds, to the parking attendants in the garage, all made it easy to drive my car through the oncoming flow of foot traffic. I’m very thankful to all who helped make it a fun and peaceful weekend at our beautiful St. Petersburg waterfront. Thomas Gombarcik, St. Petersburg Help Ukraine defend itself ‘Freedom will always triumph over tyranny’ | March 2 When the Soviet Union installed a puppet regime in Afghanistan during the Soviet-Afghan War in the 1980s, the United States armed the Mujahedin, a military force of Muslim guerrilla warriors fighting against the Soviet occupation, with Stinger missiles. These surface-to-air anti-aircraft weapons gave the resistance the ability to destroy Soviet aircraft, turning the tide of the war and eventually leading to full withdrawal of Soviet troops. Despite not being a member of NATO, Ukraine, a sovereign democratic European nation, is deserving of full-throated protection against Russian hegemony. The United States must join its NATO allies in supplying Ukraine, in the most expeditious manner, with as many Stingers or their equivalent as necessary. Sanctions may inflict pain on an economic level, but they do not stop tanks, helicopter gun ships, or murderous despots like Vladimir Putin. Jane Larkin, Tampa The truth hurts Restoring trust is a long-term project | Column, Feb. 27 Thank you for sharing professor William Felice’s thoughts and works. We are fortunate to have his perspectives.  It is a good thing that the professor has retired.  If he were still teaching, his thoughts about how to heal the country might make some people uncomfortable. Discomfort you say?  We will have none of that!  The state’s politicians, who probably grew up receiving participation awards to soften the discomfort of losing, won’t like what Felice has to say. The potential of making students uncomfortable by saying that Transparency International recently ranked the United States as 27th least corrupt country in the world might indoctrinate and even worse, cause them to take action. This could be extremely uncomfortable to these ego fragile politicians and more importantly, their lobbyists. Terrence S. Callahan, Crystal Beach