It wouldn’t be secret How to help Ukraine | Column, March 5 I usually enjoy Robert Adolph’s columns, but his suggestion that we clandestinely deploy U.S. and NATO special operations forces to directly participate in a Ukrainian resistance is dangerously off base. This would engage those forces in direct military operations against Russia — an extraordinary risk for a minuscule return. He suggests that the effort would be “clandestine” — “secret and deniable.” History shows that such operations are all too frequently exposed with disastrous consequences. We should support Ukrainians with everything short of military action that would provide Vladimir Putin an excuse to expand the conflict. Mike Pheneger, Tampa The writer, a retired colonel, was a U.S. Army intelligence officer. What about the others? It’s not ‘pro-life’ or ‘pro-choice,’ just cruel | March 6 Certainly we must have sympathy for couples faced with an unborn child with medical issues. But does the solution require the destruction of thousands of preborn babies who do not have medical issues? Your editorial cites statistics from the state’s Agency for Health Care Administration that 4,838 abortions were done in Florida after 12 weeks in 2021. Of those, 2,848 were “elective,” not reported as involving rape, incest, the health of the mother or serious fetal defect, etc. So, 59 percent of second trimester abortions were elective. What protection is there for them? In all other cases involving the taking of human life — capital punishment, for example — our societal standard is certainty “beyond a reasonable doubt.” Should not well-developed preborn babies be accorded the same protection ? Norman Dusseault, St. Petersburg None of your business It’s not ‘pro-life’ or ‘pro-choice,’ just cruel | March 6 It will never go unnoticed that the same people who bark about “parental rights” on mask mandates, vaccine mandates, book banning in schools, “don’t say gay” in schools — and on and on — don’t think the parents should call the shots when it comes to pregnancy and its costs to women and families where rape, incest, mortal defects and also women’s rights are concerned. They loudly donkey on about “their rights” while subverting the rights of the rest of us. They should live their lives and let the rest of us live ours. Our lives are none of their business. Steve Douglas, St. Petersburg For a reason It’s not ‘pro-life’ or ‘pro-choice,’ just cruel | March 6 I know not God’s reasons for the instances in which a pregnancy happens because of rape or incest. But trusting in providence, I know those children must be for a reason. Besides the viability point that the editorial references of 24 weeks, most of us on the pro-life side believe that “life” begins at conception. That’s why most pro-life facilities strongly favor ultrasound images — we believe they show “life.” So, to take what evidently is not considered life, but a choice, from the womb, seems to be a definition of ”cruel.” Kenn Sidorewich, Oldsmar The high cost of minimum wage St. Petersburg extends $15 minimum wage to all city employees | March 3 I believe that minimum wage requirements will ultimately do more damage than good to the intended recipients. The ripple effect through the workforce will impact all income levels as businesses are forced to increase wages for all levels to offset the higher levels of inflation that it creates. The timing could not be worse with the inflation we are already facing due to years of bad fiscal policy by the Fed. The best option is to let the free market naturally create wage increases that won’t harm small businesses and low-income earners. Forced wage increases will result in businesses reducing workforce and other operating expenses to stay market competitive. Sometimes the best medicine is no medicine at all. Let the free market work by limiting government, lowering taxes and supporting small business. We should be focusing on private-public partnerships for affordable housing projects and coming up with public transportation solutions that will actually work. Reducing lanes on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street for non-existent bikes and eliminating lanes of travel along First Avenues N and S for a bus nobody will ride are not the solutions we need right now as our population grows rapidly and tests the limits of our infrastructure. Tom Burket, St. Petersburg Can’t talk to white friends Here’s why I don’t complain about racism to white people | Column, March 6 For 23 years, I was a Christian minister of Jehovah’s Witnesses. The one concept that I focused on was their belief that all ethnicities were loved and treated equally by God. During that time, I enjoyed the company of many people from totally different cultures and backgrounds. If not for the religion I would have never been able to have those experiences. I have also dated women of other races and that also “colored” my perspective. Columnist Brian Broome is 100 percent correct in his assessment. I can’t even talk to my white friends and neighbors about what I experienced, so how can a Black person possibly explain it to the willingly clueless if someone like me considers such attempts at enlightenment futile? Brian Valsavage, St. Petersburg Full freedom of speech DeSantis presses Legislature to pass doctor ‘free speech’ bill | March 4 I see our erstwhile governor wants to free up physicians so they can speak truthfully to their patients. Will this freedom also include asking their patients about guns? James Dina, Dunedin