Former President Barack Obama revealed Sunday that he’s tested positive for COVID-19. Obama announced the news on social media, saying that aside from a “scratchy throat,” he’s “feeling fine. “I just tested positive for COVID,” the president tweeted. “I’ve had a scratchy throat for a couple days, but am feeling fine otherwise. Michelle and I are grateful to be vaccinated and boosted, and she has tested negative. It’s a reminder to get vaccinated if you haven’t already, even as cases go down. Obama is the first living former president known to have tested positive for the coronavirus. Then-President Donald Trump tested positive in fall 2020, just before debating President Joe Biden before that year’s elections. Among the first national political figures to wish Obama well was one many might find unexpected: Republican Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene. “Wishing you a speedy recovery!” she tweeted, before highlighting COVID-19′s fatality rate and adding: “Vaccines should be a choice not a mandate, and natural immunity should be recognized.” This is a developing story. Stay with tampabay.com for updates. • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for eligible recipients are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your ZIP code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • More coronavirus coverage OMICRON VARIANT: Omicron changed what we know about COVID. Here’s the latest on how the infectious COVID-19 variant affects masks, vaccines, boosters and quarantining. KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? Here’s the answers to your questions. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.