ST. PETERSBURG — Cuban bread fans, rejoice: La Segunda’s highly anticipated St. Petersburg location is now open at 2424 Fourth St. N. Now in its 107th year in business, the legendary purveyor of Cuban bread, guava cheese turnovers and Cuban sandwiches is crossing the bay for the first time. It’s the latest expansion for the bakery, which opened in Ybor City in 1915 and in 2018 opened a second location on W Kennedy Boulevard in Tampa. We spoke with Copeland More, the bakery’s fourth-generation owner, about what guests can expect from the new space. The company had been eyeing other locations for the expansion, but St. Pete won out More and his team had been considering several different Tampa Bay spots for the iconic bakery’s third location, but St. Petersburg was always the strongest contender. “I grew up here in Tampa and I love it here,” More said. “But I’ve seen the growth recently (in St. Petersburg) and I’ve been eyeing this market for our next move for a long time. Once this site became available, we jumped on it.” More said the Fourth Street N location was attractive for its neighborhood charm, walkability and the mix of residential and office spaces nearby. The design was inspired by La Segunda’s other two locations When designing the space, More said he looked to both the Ybor location and W Kennedy spot for inspiration. He liked the grab-and-go business of the original bakery, but knew customers wanted a space where they could sit and linger for a while. And he wanted to make sure that the cafe’s aesthetic brought to mind the company’s Ybor City roots. The St. Pete cafe now includes both a full bakery and cafe sitting, and will offer in-house service, grab-and-go and catering operations. The cafe’s decor features red brick accent walls, iron work details and globe-shaped pendant lights — a nod to Ybor’s five-globe street lamps. Located inside the Holiday Plaza, the roughly 1,800-square-foot space will feature indoor seating for 40 people and an additional 30 seats outdoors. There’s currently no cover on the patio but More said he’s working with the building’s landlord to get permitting for a retractable awning. Parking for cars and bikes is available on-site. For guests who would rather order out, the cafe features an online portal and ordering system that includes home delivery to the St. Petersburg area without having to go through a third-party app. Everything is baked in-house The menu is identical to the bakery’s Ybor and South Tampa locations, so fans can expect all their favorites, from an expansive pastry and confection selection, sandwiches, salads and the bakery’s signature Cuban bread. And while the menu is designed with the takeout customer in mind, More said the cafe space is also designed to welcome those who want to stay and linger with friends and neighbors. Although the St. Petersburg cafe doesn’t have as much kitchen space as the other locations, everything is baked in-house. Dough for the Cuban bread is mixed and proofed at the Ybor City location and then sent across the bay — along with the palmetto leaves used to make the bread’s signature imprint. The loaves are then baked on-site to ensure they stay fresh and crispy when sold the day of. Feel free to bring the pooch There’s plenty of outdoor patio space and the cafe is dog-friendly, so go ahead and bring Fido along. The cafe’s grand opening is March 21 (but you can pick up a loaf of Cuban bread right now) Although the cafe’s official grand opening isn’t for another week and a half, the spot is currently open for business, taking orders and welcoming customers during their soft-opening phase, with some curbed hours. Following the grand opening, the cafe will be open daily from 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m