Biden’s policies raised gas prices Gas prices jumped $.79 in two weeks | March 14 Gas prices were climbing for the last year and are not a result of the war in Ukraine. The Biden administration went public with inconclusive information on the crown prince of Saudi Arabia and his possible involvement in the killing of American journalist Jamal Khashoggi and then canceled an arms agreement that was made by the former administration. Gee, I wonder why the Saudis aren’t picking up the phone? President Biden’s war on American energy started the first day he took office. His rhetoric and energy policies coupled with crippling regulations that curtail oil companies from drilling on government land is why gas prices have continually climbed since he took office. Mark Khan, Tampa Twilight zone laws Politics push policy aside | March 13 As a retired Pinellas County guidance counselor, I know that Florida educators are not socially engineering students. Our state representatives are passing bills on non existing issues. Passing laws on made up problems is legislating from the twilight zone. Reality check: Homeowners insurance. Please help! I’m drowning. Linda Raines , St. Petersburg War in Ukraine War in Ukraine | March 13 Just 34 months ago, we spent a week in Ukraine as tourists. We were welcomed as Americans and completely surprised at the widespread use of English and Ukrainians knowledge of the U.S.A. It wasn’t just the people, food and drink —the country is beautiful. To see the daily devastation and destruction is simply heart breaking. Somehow, just sending money to World Central Kitchen and paying more for gas doesn’t seem to be enough. Tony Leisner, PhD, Tarpon Springs Pitts wrong ... sort of Florida conservatives are about to lose the 21st Century | Column, March 14 Columnist Leonard Pitts argues that the outcomes of history prove social conservatives have always been wrong. I am not a social conservative, but I believe he has not proved that they are wrong but only that they have lost their political battles. I am sure that too many conservatives still believe that whites belong at the top of the social order and that women belong at home in the kitchen, regardless of laws that have been passed. Laws do not make morality right or wrong; they instead make behavior legal or illegal. Alan Balfour, Temple Terrace Ignorant don’t get it A story about some words I can’t say | March 13 I don’t think I’ve ever read a clearer, simpler explanation in my long life about why white folks shouldn’t feel free or comfortable using the “n-word”, ever, than guest columnist Damon Young’s explanation on Sunday. If young Mr. Young and his white friends knew the reasons, even instinctually, at age 11 three decades ago, there is absolutely no excuse why white folks age 11 and above now can’t “get it” either. Only the obvious deficits of good will and brainpower, perhaps as a result of their upbringing, can explain it. And still so many try to excuse it, even into their old age and the brink of the grave. It’s shameful. Steve Douglas, Saint Petersburg