TAMPA — USF softball pitcher Georgina Corrick had quite the week. On Wednesday, she broke the Bulls’ single-game strikeout record with 19 in a 5-0 victory over Florida Gulf Coast and claimed the program’s career shutouts record with 38. On Saturday, the senior from Sanford had 12 strikeouts in a 4-1 win over Army, surpassing 1,000 for her career, only the second Bulls pitcher to reach that milestone. Then on Sunday, Corrick achieved perfection for the first time in her career, and the fourth time in USF softball history, retiring 15 consecutive batters without allowing a baserunner in a 9-0 shutout of Florida A&M. Corrick struck out eight and threw just 56 pitches. It was her 13th victory of the season and lowered her ERA to 0.08. She has allowed just one earned run in 87.1 innings and has now gone 57.2 innings without allowing run and 63.2 without an earned run. The perfect game was the Bulls’ first since Sara Nevins’ no-no against Temple on May 3, 2014. The other two in USF history: Nevins against Toledo on March 11, 2012, and Leigh Ann Ellis against Canisius on March 11, 2003. It was Corrick’s seventh no-hitter (sixth solo), second only to Nevins, who threw nine (eight solo) in her Bulls career. Corrick’s gem wasn’t the game’s only highlight. The Bulls erupted for nine runs, posting the run-rule, shutout victory against the Rattlers on the last day of the weekend tournament at USF Softball Stadium. The Bulls started their attack in the second inning, with Josie Foreman scoring on a single by Jordyn Kadlub. USF broke it open in the third with seven runs. Vivian Ponn started the inning with a triple that scored Meghan Sheehan. Madison Epperson singled home Ponn to push the lead to 3-0. Later in the inning, Foreman doubled home Megan Pierro and Courtney Waldo. That was followed by a three-run double from Sheehan that made it 8-0. The Bulls ended their onslaught in the fourth, as Emilee Hanlon was hit by a pitch with the bases loaded, scoring Epperson. Up next for USF, a doubleheader Wednesday against visiting Stetson at 5 p.m. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.