The city of Tampa is one step closer to turning a nearly half-acre plot of land by the Port Tampa Bay parking garage into a small public park. Port officials on Tuesday approved selling a 0.45-acre tract of land just north of the garage to the city for $3.8 million. The land is currently used for recreational vehicle parking, which port officials say can be handled elsewhere. The port will also have an easement on the land to repair the garage as needed. “This is actually going to provide some park space in an area of the city that really needs it,” said port and county commissioner Harry Cohen. “It will also allow the port to retain some development rights around it that could be worth some money in the years to come. So I think it’s a real win-win.” This is the second time in three years the port has reached a deal to sell the land. In 2019, Tampa’s Streams Capital agreed to pay $4.7 million for the parcel, planning to build a 33-story hotel and condo building there. That deal fell through in early 2020. Adding greenspace to the area is one of the city’s top priorities for the Channel District Community Redevelopment Area, which, like other community redevelopment areas, or CRAs, can spend tax receipts on localized improvements. The proposed park sits just east of the $3.5 Water Street Tampa development, which is integrating public plazas and meeting spaces, but little grassy space. “They’ve integrated in seating and wonderful spaces where someone could, if you’re working there or on a weekend, go down there and enjoy fresh air and come outside,” said Michelle Van Loan, the city’s CRA director. “But their space is a very relaxed public realm, versus a thorough greenspace.” In 2020, the city opened Madison Street Park, which has dog parks, a putting green and volleyball and shuffleboard courts, among other amenities. The port’s parcel is about half that size, limiting the possibilities for, say, a large playground. “On that kind of size, you could have exercise equipment, you could have a walking path, you could have spaces to just sit and enjoy it,” Van Loan said. The city has up to 60 days to perform its due diligence on the property, including, potentially, a new appraisal. The $3.8 million purchase price is about $500,000 more than the land was appraised for last year, said port attorney Charles Klug. If City Council approves the purchase, the Channel District CRA will hold community workshops to discuss what a new park might look like. “So much of the Channel District is high-rises and concrete,” Van Loan said. “Anytime you can put in some softness and greenspace, that’s a plus.”