Yet another Republican, Chris Chambers, has entered the primary to take on Tampa’s Democratic U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor. Chambers, a Tampa Electric Co. official, Coast Guard veteran and president of the Propeller Club at Port of Tampa, has joined fellow Republicans Jay Collins, James Judge and Angel Urbina in the congressional District 14 race. Chambers, 38, of Riverview, a first-time candidate for office, said he has no significant prior political experience. He said he’s running because of “the current environment. Washington is broken, in every neighborhood people are hurting with high gas prices. I want to bring back common sense policies to Washington.” Married with one child, Chambers is manager of security and emergency management at Tampa Electric and chairperson of the military advisory committee of the Tampa Bay Chamber of Commerce. As a Coast Guard chief petty officer, he worked in emergency management and as a liaison to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and deployed to Kuwait. The Propeller Club promotes maritime industries at the port. With redistricting underway, the boundaries of the district aren’t finalized. Chambers said he will run in whatever district ends up including his Riverview home. The map passed last week by the Legislature and sent to Gov. Ron DeSantis would put his home in the Tampa-based district that Castor serves. DeSantis, however, has threatened to veto that map and has proposed his own. It would put most of Riverview in a district including Manatee County and south Hillsborough, areas currently in the district of U.S. Rep. Vern Buchanan, R-Longboat Key. But any Republican will face an uphill battle against Castor under either the DeSantis or legislative congressional maps. In the Legislature’s map, the new District 14 covers territory that voted for Joe Biden by 10 points; in DeSantis’s map the Democratic margin is more than 20 points. Chambers intends to emphasize his military career in his campaign, as has primary opponent Collins. He said he believes one reason for political divisiveness is that Congress has fewer veterans as members than at any time since World War II.