After canceling in 2020 and limiting the crowds in 2021, the PGA’s Valspar Championship is back with its festival-like atmosphere at Innisbrook’s Copperhead Course in Palm Harbor. This year’s tournament will start to feel like it did before the pandemic, organizers said, and it comes at a good time for the game of golf. There has been a steep decline in the number of young golfers taking up the sport in the past decade, with everything from TV ratings to golf-equipment sales dropping before the pandemic. Thanks to social distancing, the sport of golf saw a resurgence during the pandemic. The National Golf Foundation reported its biggest increase in 17 years in rounds played last year. Only one other year saw a bigger rise in interest in the sport: 1997, the year Tiger Woods became a national sensation. And with a party atmosphere on the fan side at the Valspar tournament, with its margarita deck, faux beach with lounge chairs, bourbon tastings and kids zone, it makes it easier for new fans to warm up to the sport, said tournament director Tracy West. “You always want the game to grow, honestly, and since the pandemic started golf is skyrocketing,” West said. “I think the more the industry does these things to make people feel less intimidated by golf, they will maybe take some lessons and become an actual player.” The traditional image of golf tournaments has been one of whispered commentary and a soft “golf clap” coming from the crowds to not disrupt the concentration of players. Valspar still holds up signs to silence the crowd as players step up, and the fans tend to behave at Innisbrook. But today’s players seem comfortable with the more relaxed atmosphere, West said. “I think a lot of these young guys like Tyrrell Hatton and Collin Morikawa have fun personalities,” West said. “They are in social media, making comments about each other and making fun of each other. It’s creating some younger fans, no question.” Ticket sales show the tournament is on track to draw some 100,000 people, or about 25,000 per day, West said. While that sounds like a lot, she points out that there are 100 acres to spread out and create some space. Here are some of the fan-friendly options to be on the lookout for: Concert: Country music star Chris Young will headline a concert at the end of the day’s play on Saturday. Young will be joined by special guests Big & Rich in a show on the Osprey Driving Range starting at about 6:30 p.m. that will be included with that day’s admission. St. Patrick’s Day: The first day of play on Thursday falls on St. Patrick’s Day, so fans are encouraged to dress in green or in a leprechaun costume. Ten people will be picked throughout the day for a costume contest on the 18th green. It will be judged by former Tampa Bay Buccaneer Ronde Barber. They all will get prizes, and the winner will get a $500 Delta airline credit. Dress colorfully: Since the tournament is put on by paint manufacturer Valspar, they will be sending “color scouts” into the crowd each day looking for people who are dressed in brightly colored outfits. There will be 2,500 prizes given away each day, such as sunglasses, concession coupons and bandanas. Block party: In the section called the Tampa General Hospital Courtyard, you’ll find a block party with tiny homes you can tour and a place to play with trending colors and paint a fan mural. There will be free ice pops, games and shady spots to relax. Chillounge: Set up on the eighth tee, the Publix Chillounge is an expansive area with comfortable chairs and sitting areas and food such as the Birdie Publix Sub and the Copperberry drink for sale. Giveaways: On the first tee and 10th tee each day, Publix will pick 20 fans to receive a box of goodies. At the gate, guests on Thursday will get a free green koozie for St. Patrick’s Day. On Saturday, Chick-fil-A will be giving out free sandwich coupons, and on Sunday clothing brand Tommy John will be handing out a “valuables pouch” to the first 5,000 arrivals. Tampa General Hospital has set up sunscreen stations at various points around the course to hand out protection. LOUNGES While some areas like the Hooters Owls Nest are open only to those who buy a special ticket, other lounges are open to all, such as: Michelob Ultra Club: Between the ninth green and 10th tee, featuring open seating and variety of beers. Celebrity Cruises Luxury Deck: This new deck on the 10th tee is elevated for a better view and features cocktails and mimosas for sale. Frenchy’s Pool Party: While there is a pool behind the clubhouse, it’s not for swimming. But they will be serving favorites from Frenchy’s menu behind the 18th green. Maestro Doebel Margarita Deck: This viewing deck on the 13th green will feature a variety of margaritas. Horse Soldier Lounge: This lounge at the 10th green features bourbon and whiskey cocktails. Josh Cellar Wine Garden: A variety of Josh Cellars Wine will be sold at the ninth green. 18th Green Famous Tate: Fan seating provides great views of the action on the 18th green. If you go Valspar Championship: Play for the public view begins Thursday and goes until Sunday at Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor, 36750 U.S. 19 N. Gates open at 7 a.m. daily. Tickets: Daily tickets are $55 to $70, and parking is $10 to $20 depending on the day. There are weekly tickets and packages available at valsparchampionship.com/tickets-packages.