TAMPA — Talk of sky-high rents is everywhere in Florida’s third-largest city these days. So when Mayor Jane Castor stood up to address a dozen or so residents clustered inside a McDonald’s in Seminole Heights on Thursday, she cut right to the chase: Her administration will dedicate $4 million more to housing assistance for people struggling to pay their rent. That infusion quadruples a $1 million city housing assistance program, which began March 1 and already had 963 applicants when it was paused Thursday, Castor’s spokesperson Adam Smith said. The money will come from the general fund, which pays for much of the city’s daily operations. Castor said she would submit her request to the City Council later Thursday “and I have no doubt they’ll approve it.” Council members have largely supported efforts to help soften the blow of a rental market that is among the hottest in the nation. Her administration’s housing policy, Castor said, is based on the idea of preserving longtime neighborhoods and allowing residents fearful of getting pushed out the chance to “live in areas they want to.” “The diversity and uniqueness of our neighborhoods is what makes Tampa the greatest city in the nation,” Castor said. When the initial $1 million was announced last month, Castor’s staff said the money would help up to 100 households. People earning up to 140 percent of the median area income or $103,320 for a family of four would be eligible. A single person earning more than $72,000 would also qualify. Payments would go to the landlord. Castor said she didn’t have the details of how many people would be helped by the additional allocation. Smith said later her office didn’t know how many people would be helped. Homelessness, transportation and crumbling infrastructure were on the minds of many of the dozen or so people who gathered inside the restaurant on E Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Castor said the city has been working with Catholic Charities to create something like Pinellas Hope, which operates in Clearwater and provides temporary shelter to homeless people. And she agreed with a young woman who questioned why people struggling with addiction are being arrested. Castor said other measures should be found to deal with addiction issues. Residents asked about using private commercial lots to help alleviate the restaurant and bar traffic along Florida Avenue or extending trolley service to Seminole Heights to alleviate parking problems on their streets. Both were ideas that the mayor said she supported. But, she said, residents needed to vote to back a penny sales tax, which had passed in Hillsborough County in 2018 only to be overturned by the Florida Supreme Court last year. “We need to vote that back in,” the mayor said referring to county commissioner’s plans to place the 1 percent tax back on the ballot in November. Every part of the city thinks they’re getting shortchanged on infrastructure like fixing potholes, Castor said. Those impressions are misplaced, she said. The city divides its maintenance evenly across the city — and it shows, she said. “Everybody gets the same and it’s not good. It’s potholes, potholes, potholes,” Castor said. The mayor also touted the City Center project on E Hanna Avenue in East Tampa as an example of a city project that will contribute toward training workers in culinary arts and sedan maintenance to help meet its workforce development goals. That $108 million project has come under scrutiny after it mushroomed from a $10 million contract without being rebid. Castor’s administration says it followed the law, an assertion challenged by some contractors, activists and an outside expert who say minority firms didn’t get a fair shot at the massive infrastructure project that will house hundreds of city workers. Last week, city attorney Gina Grimes issued a memo to City Council members laying out the city’s justification for the project and warning council members against discussing it for fear of litigation. Council members approved moving the discussion to March 31 and asked Castor staffers to explain their reasoning publicly. Asked if staffers would appear next week before council members and the public, Castor said her administration has been transparent. “City staff has briefed, appeared, briefed and appeared over and over on this project,” Castor said. “What has not been explained about Hanna Avenue in the multiple appearances and publicly out in the community?” “Staff is definitely going to communicate in the most effective and thorough manner with City Council” she said. But she said she didn’t know if her staff would appear at next week’s council meeting. Editor’s Note: The original version of the this story had the incorrect date for the City Council meeting where Castor’s staff has been asked to appear. It will occur on March 31.