Bucs fans seeking any sliver of hope regarding a Rob Gronkowski return to the Bucs in 2022 found one Wednesday. Courtesy of Twitter, of course. A video tweeted by Alan Villa, owner of a well-known South Tampa eatery, shows Gronkowski inside Danny’s Barber Shop in West Tampa. The brief clip begins with Gronk saying, “There’s a very good chance,” presumably in reference to a question of whether he’ll play for the Bucs this season. Gronk then goes on to suggest he’ll make Tom Brady sweat out his decision, similar to how Brady made the local fan base squirm for more than a month. Brady announced Sunday he’ll play in 2022, only 40 days after announcing his departure from football. “I’ll let him have a little scare,” Gronk says in the video. “He just did it to me for a couple of months, so I’m going to do it to him.” The new NFL year formally commenced Wednesday afternoon with the Bucs compliant with the league’s $208.2 million salary cap. Gronkowski, who turns 33 in May, was among several prominent Bucs free agents who remained unsigned, joining tailback Leonard Fournette, defensive linemen Ndamukong Suh and William Gholston and edge rusher Jason Pierre-Paul. While any still could re-sign with Tampa Bay, the team would have to make a corresponding roster move to stay at or under the salary cap. As it stands, Cameron Brate — who has agreed to a restructured deal — is the only Bucs tight end with an NFL reception under contract; former first-round draft choice O.J. Howard reportedly has agreed to a one-year deal with the Bills. Since emerging from a one-year retirement, Gronkowski has enjoyed a resurgence with the Bucs, totaling 100 catches for 1,425 yards and 13 touchdowns in the last two regular seasons. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.