ST. PETERSBURG — Public service has become a tradition for the Gerdes family. Copley Gerdes is just the latest in line to work on behalf of his fellow citizens at St. Petersburg City Hall. He now represents the District 1 seat on the City Council held by his father, Charlie Gerdes, from 2012 to 2020. He took over in January. Copley’s uncle — and Charlie’s brother — Rob Gerdes is a longtime city employee who was promoted to assistant city administrator by Mayor Ken Welch to tackle one of the city’s most pressing issues: affordable housing. The Gerdeses agree: The family’s service mentality took root a generation earlier, with the arrival of Charlie and Rob’s parents in St. Petersburg. They quickly became active in their adopted community, from coaching youth sports to volunteering with programs for the poor. They gave of themselves and encouraged their children to do the same. “They made it clear that we continue to be close and that’s important to them,” Rob Gerdes said of his parents. “Really the message was: Love God, love other people and stay close to your family.” Friends say they fully expected Copley to carry the torch. “It’s who we are.” he said. “I’m super proud to be a part of that.” ‘In our DNA’ Charlie and Rob’s parents moved to St. Petersburg from Huntsville, Ala., when their father was transferred at ECI, now Raytheon. They became heavily involved at the Cathedral of St. Jude. Charlie was 6, and Rob wouldn’t be born for another 10 years. Charlie V. Gerdes, the family patriarch, was a board member and coach at Azalea Little League Baseball. He made sure his children read the newspaper and kept up on current events. His wife Annalise Gerdes would become a lifetime volunteer at Alpha House, which helps pregnant homeless women and teens, and would take her grandchildren, including a 10-year-old Copley, with her. At 86, the family matriarch is still volunteering. Charlie and Rob’s brother, John Gerdes, is the athletic director at Clearwater Central Catholic High School. Copley’s mother, two of his aunts and his in-laws are teachers. His cousin is a firefighter. “There is something in our DNA that I’m really happy that we got,” Copley said. The siblings and cousins all watched each other’s baseball games. Especially Copley and Rob, who are now 38 and 49, respectively. Rob taught Copley how to set up for a double play, to shoot a shotgun and to tie fishing knots. Copley was an adult when his father took office, but he said it was fun watching his dad’s involvement and passion for public office. “I’m still in the red of giving back what this city has given to me,” he said. “My dad is not. My dad is in the black.” Mayor Welch and Copley have something in common. Aside from being sworn in on the same day, both of their fathers served on the City Council. David T. Welch was the first Black man elected to the council and spent three terms on the dais. He was known as mayor of Black City Hall for his accessibility to Black residents. Charlie Gerdes was known as the conscience of the council, especially when he explained why he disagreed on an issue without sounding like he disagreed. “Their service really can’t be questioned,” Mayor Welch said of the Gerdes family. Copley goes by his middle name. The oldest of four boys — like his father, the oldest of six — his first name is Charles also. And just like his dad, Copley wanted to serve his hometown. He initially eyed a run for his dad’s District 1 seat representing the west side of town in 2027, when his kids would be a little older. Then former City Council member Robert Blackmon, who replaced his father when he left the council due to term limits, decided to run for mayor midway through his first term. And Charlie gave his son a call. Former city chief of policy Kevin King, who knows the family well, once referred to Copley as a “future city council member” in a 2017 podcast. His own father had worked with Charlie Gerdes at ECI and Raytheon. He said Copley is cut from the family cloth. “To see Copley there is just really heartening to have that family’s commitment to service continue,” King said. Business as usual For Rob Gerdes, it’s the physical connection to his hometown that inspired his 23-year career. It’s driving around town and remembering events from his youth. It’s playing catch with his son on the same field he played on as a child. In search of a calling in his mid-20s, Rob channeled his affinity for the city. He found a job in the Parks and Recreation Department, putting on Ribfest along the waterfront and events at the Coliseum downtown. He moved through the ranks as a facility and recreation supervisor and then in planning and economic development. From there he moved to zoning and codes compliance, where he started to interact with his brother in the council chambers, and neighborhood affairs. At first, Rob was anxious about working with his brother. He didn’t want to give off any hint of nepotism. “I had concerns in the beginning that it could be uncomfortable, but it didn’t turn out that way at all,” he said. “My brother was a very thoughtful and thorough councilman. I expect that Copley will be the same. It really just became business as usual to be honest.” He takes the appearance of perceived nepotism seriously. He didn’t even tell his family he was up for a promotion under Welch. They found out through the news. One of the last calls Copley made before seeking office was to Rob, whom he calls his big brother. Rob said he saw public service brewing in his brother, and over time, saw the same in his nephew. “This may sound strange but I think that all of us have some type of physical, spiritual, emotional connection to the city,” Rob said. “That’s what drives our interest in city government and our interests to be public servants.” A size 11 Copley said he warns people that while they share a first name and love of their community, he and his father have their differences. For one, his father wears a 12 ½-size shoe, and he’s an 11, he jokes. Charlie is a lawyer. Copley is a financial adviser at Northwestern Mutual around the corner from City Hall. Charlie is more eloquent where Copley feels he’s more frank. They’re both Democrats, but Copley says he’s more fiscally conservative. He calls St. Petersburg a “little big town” and wants to keep it that way. He wants to make the city walkable and bikeable, like how it was when he was growing up, and support local business growth through city partnerships with local developers. Copley does, however, use his “cheat code” — what he calls his father’s phone number that he dials when he needs advice. “I’m going to do my damnedest to make my dad proud and make the city proud, make my family proud, but I’m not my dad,” he said. “And I’m totally okay with that. I own that.” While name recognition may have played a role in Copley’s election, Charlie thought his legacy could hurt his son. Copley won by just three votes ahead of Bobbie Shay Lee in the August primary. “There’s folks who didn’t like what I did on council. My mind immediately went to the downside of being a Gerdes,” Charlie said. “Look, they’re almost completely Republican neighborhoods. But I worked really hard with those neighborhoods when I was in office ... And those neighborhoods went hard for Bobbie.” Copley said he couldn’t disagree more. And he said he hopes his own example inspires his children to feel connected to their community, as his dad did for him. “If my kids are proud and involved and love the place that they live the way I did when I was 14, this will have been completely worth it,” Copley said. “Because that means we’ve continued on this path of a city for all. A city that leaves no one behind. A city that is bright and beautiful and celebrates awesome things.”