More than 100 teens streamed out of Lakewood High School just after noon Thursday, waving rainbow-colored signs and chanting “We want our rights!” They were skipping class or lunch to take a stand against the so-called “don’t say gay” bill moving through the Florida Legislature. Theirs was part of a coordinated statewide student walkout that started with a tweet from a Flagler County student activist and quickly spread to dozens of schools. “I feel that we have to take our time out of our day to talk about it,” said Nicole Bundy, a Lakewood junior who helped coordinate her school’s demonstration along 54th Street S in St. Petersburg. “It shouldn’t have to be a problem. We shouldn’t have to say it’s OK to be gay.” But that’s the position the teens said they felt placed in by the legislation (HB 1557), which is awaiting action on the Senate floor. They object to the language that prohibits instruction about gender identity and sexual orientation in kindergarten through third grade, or in other grades if it’s deemed not to be age appropriate. They said they understand the proposal, also known as the Parental Rights in Education bill, doesn’t literally ban anyone from saying the word “gay,” and that it has provisions in it to attempt to give parents more control over what their children learn in school. But the bill supporters “need to understand the bill is definitely to silence young LGBTQ kids,” said Campbell Paquette, another Lakewood junior who helped put together the walkout there. Like many others, she worried that the wording about appropriateness could lead to adults and children coming to believe it’s not appropriate to discuss issues relating to gender identity and sexual orientation. Saleem Thomas, also a Lakewood junior, carried a sign reading “Respect = Pronouns.” He said it’s important for Floridians to accept all people as they are, and not try to diminish or ignore them. “Don’t tell them who they are,” said Thomas, who attended as an ally of his LGBTQ friends. “Respect what that person is.” At nearby Gibbs High, senior Abbie Garretson put together her school’s walkout, which drew dozens of students to the campus courtyard for speeches and cheers. She said she feared the legislation would force teachers to “walk the line between appropriate and not appropriate, so they won’t talk about it at all.” As a queer teen with two moms, Garretson said, she doesn’t want young children like herself to grow up feeling that their lives don’t matter or their families are somehow wrong. She found it ironic that students are advocating for more education, including for the people who are backing the bill. The last time students conducted a widespread walkout of their classes came in 2018, after the school shooting massacre in Parkland. Their goal was to hold a moment of silence for the lost lives, and to advocate for security and peacefulness. At the time, some schools threatened to discipline students for leaving their classes. This time around, school officials across the Tampa Bay area worked with the students to allow the activities, though they sent out some instructions on things such as the length and location of the events. “I support students. That’s my job,” said Lakewood principal Erin Savage, who watched her students from the sidewalk and told them when it was time to go back inside. Teens at River Ridge High School in New Port Richey said they postponed their walkout until Monday, to be sure they had backing from their principal. River Ridge junior Isa Cacciavillani said they wanted to hold a protest to raise awareness about how many people could be negatively affected by the legislation. “I struggle immensely with being queer in a very ‘anti-gay’ space and have experienced an array of slurs,” Cacciavillani said in an email. “My main goal is to show queer youth that they are not alone like I was during my upbringing.” Walkouts also took place at Blake, Robinson and Hillsborough high schools in Hillsborough County, and at Fivay, Gulf, Mitchell and Wesley Chapel high schools in Pasco County, among others. The organizers said they were enthusiastic about the large turnouts, and hopeful they might make a difference. “I feel like we can definitely move on from here,” Lakewood junior Bundy said. “This is just the beginning.” This story is developing and will be updated. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.