PORT CHARLOTTE — The guilty party was unaware. The aggrieved party didn’t care. But Rays manager Kevin Cash made sure that Wander Franco’s faux pas was hilariously brought to the team’s — and as it turns out the world’s — attention on Friday morning. It began when Franco arrived at the Rays spring training complex in his white Range Rover and backed into a parking spot that very clearly was assigned to baseball operations president Erik Neander. When Neander arrived a little later, he simply moved down the line and parked in the spot of fellow team president Matt Silverman. When he got out of his car, he took a picture of the offending vehicle and sent what he thought was a funny text to senior director of travel and logistics Chris Westmoreland. “Like my new whip?” the text said. Neander then went about his day, which included an on-camera interview with Tricia Whitaker of Bally Sports Florida. What he did not realize was that Westmoreland had shown the picture to Cash. Within minutes, Cash had hatched a plan and went racing through the team’s complex looking for Neander. “I’m with Tricia interviewing, knock on the door and Cash is like, ‘I need you.’ I’m like, ‘Oh (nooooo). What happened? Did Freddie (Freeman) change his mind?’ How bad would something need to be for him to interrupt,” Neander said. “I’m like, ‘Cashy, can it wait?’ He’s, ‘No, no, just five minutes right now.’” Turns out, Cash had instructed Westmoreland to move Franco’s car out of the parking lot and through the doorway in centerfield where the car was re-parked in the middle of the field. With most of the team’s regulars on the field doing exercises and drills, Cash happily announced he had found a new spot for Franco’s car where, presumably, it could be a target during batting practice. “It was all good fun,” said Cash, a two-time winner of the American League Manager of the Year award. Since Cash had interrupted an interview with cameras rolling, the Bally Sports Florida crew was able to catch Franco’s reaction. The 21-year-old star, who recently signed a $182 million contract extension, sheepishly said he was sorry before Neander came over and hugged him. By mid-day a clip of the prank was airing on MLB Network. “I laughed and I said, ‘Hey, you do good on this extension and that spot is yours,’” Neander said. “He just laughed, ‘Sorry.’ He was so confused. I just wanted him to know, ‘Hey, we’re good. We’re just having fun.’” The car was driven off the field before batting practice began and returned to the parking lot. So did it go back into Neander’s space? Not a chance. It ended the day in owner Stuart Sternberg’s parking spot. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.