Read the standards ‘Don’t say gay’ bill heads to governor | March 9 Gov. Ron DeSantis and the legislators who drafted the “Parental Rights in Education” bill, also known as the “don’t say gay” bill, apparently were unaware of the Florida Department of Education’s standards that specifically dictate what is taught in public schools. These standards are available for anyone to see at cpalms.org. School districts develop curriculum maps based on the Florida standards. At elementary schools, teachers from each grade level collaborate in teams to craft lesson plans that adhere to the curriculum maps. The topic of sexuality is nowhere to be found in the K-3 standards for science or any other content area for those grade levels. The governor must know this, yet he continues to combatively assert that “transgenderism or something” could be injected into kindergarten classroom instruction. The parental rights bill is nothing more than a cynical ruse to stoke the fears and animus of DeSantis’ political base. We deserve a governor who is grounded in common decency and knows how to inspire people to come together for the good of our uniquely beautiful state. Cindy Maxwell, Clearwater Not the taxpayer Stadium site comes into focus for USF | March 9 There have been two articles over the past two days regarding a football stadium for the University of South Florida Bulls but little about who would bear the cost. I certainly hope it is not expected to be the taxpayers. A lot of affordable housing is needed in the Tampa Bay area. A real mass transit system linking the cities of Tampa Bay needs to be built. There is a perfectly adequate existing stadium on Dale Mabry Highway. If the people in charge or philanthropists or whoever can’t figure out where public priorities should be, we need new people to run things. Stuart McKinney, Gulfport Be more positive ‘Don’t say gay’ bill heads to governor | March 9 While our governor was in Plant City, a reporter asked him about the “don’t say gay” bill, and he lashed out, demanding to know: Where does it say that in the bill? I don’t think Gov. Ron DeSantis ever misses an opportunity to be confrontational, divisive and argumentative. Wouldn’t it be more productive to use opportunities as a teaching tool — maybe inform the reporter and his constituents what is in the bill? His default position is negative, rather than positive. Always being offensive is not the characteristic of a statesman. Kathleen Murphy, St. Petersburg