TALLAHASSEE — With a stroke of his pen, a defiant Gov. Ron DeSantis shot back at critics in Florida and across the country. On Monday, surrounded by Republican legislators, the governor signed House Bill 1557, called the “Parental Rights in Education” bill. Critics have dubbed the measure Florida’s “don’t say gay” bill because it prohibits instruction related to gender identity or sexual orientation in kindergarten through third grade — and potentially restricts such instruction for older kids. The bill, which will take effect July 1, will allow parents to sue school districts for allegedly violating its provisions. “In Florida, we not only know that parents have a right to be involved, we insist that parents have a right to be involved,” DeSantis said while standing behind a lectern emblazoned with the slogan, “support children. Protect parents.” When it was originally filed, the legislation restricted “classroom discussion” about gender identity and sexual orientation. The bill’s language later changed to prohibit “classroom instruction by school personnel or third parties.” The new law also prohibits schools from enacting policies that prevent the disclosure of “critical decisions” to parents “affecting a student’s mental, emotional, or physical health or well-being,” although schools could still withhold certain information if they believe the disclosure would result in abuse, neglect or abandonment. Some LGBTQ advocates worry that provision could lead to schools outing gay or transgender kids to their parents. As lawmakers debated the bill, hundreds of Florida students took to the halls of the Capitol in Tallahassee to voice their opposition. The White House is opposed to the legislation. And earlier this month, the CEO of Disney told shareholders the measure could be used to “unfairly target gay, lesbian, nonbinary and transgender kids and families.” Gay entertainers lampooned the measure on Sunday evening’s broadcast of the Academy Awards, and earlier this month on “Saturday Night Live.” That criticism has only emboldened DeSantis, who accused critics of “sloganeering and fake narratives.” “They don’t want to admit that they support a lot of the things that we’re protecting against,” DeSantis said. “For example, they support sexualizing kids in kindergarten. They support injecting woke gender ideology into second-grade classrooms. They support enabling schools to ‘transition’ students to a ‘different gender’ without the knowledge of the parent.”  Republican supporters of HB 1557 have long contended the news media and the bill’s opponents have intentionally distorted the legislation’s meaning. They’ve argued that when voters read the language of the seven-page bill, they come away in favor of its provisions. Some recent polling appears to bolster this thesis. A Morning Consult and Politico poll of 2005 registered voters from earlier this month found that 50 percent of voters support banning instruction on gender identity and sexual identity in kindergarten through third-grade classrooms. About 34 percent of voters oppose that ban, according to that poll. Instruction on gender identity and sexual orientation is not currently a part of the curriculum in the state’s kindergarten through third-grade classrooms. According to the Morning Consult-Politico poll, 41 percent of those surveyed supported allowing parents to sue schools over alleged violations of the law, while 43 percent were against that provision. Seven Republican lawmakers in the House voted against the bill, and two in the Senate — an unusual sign of party fracture in the GOP-dominated Florida Legislature. (One House Democrat supported the bill.) Since it passed, DeSantis has repeatedly mischaracterized what the bill does. He’s said the bill will stop young students from being “sexualized” in the classroom. Amendments offered by Democratic and Republican lawmakers to broaden the bill to include a prohibition on teaching young kids about all kinds of human sexuality — not just topics that appear to relate to LGBTQ Floridians — were roundly rejected by GOP lawmakers. This is a breaking news story that will be updated.