A president’s plain talk Biden speech slams Putin | March 27 Political pundits the world over are having an absolute field day as a result of President Joe Biden’s characteristically plain-talking statement regarding the Russian lunatic Vladimir Putin. As a public relations professional now teaching the next generation of PR pros, I had a brief moment of “OMG, how do we ‘fix’ this?” Then I took a deep breath, put on my figurative hat as chair of the Public Relations Society of America’s Board of Ethics and Professional Standards and said, “Thank you, Mr. President, for putting into very plain language what so many of us around the world are also saying: ‘This man cannot remain in power.’ ” Rather than wasting everyone’s time sugar-coating perceptions and realities surrounding the state of affairs in Ukraine, let’s focus on stopping the atrocities being committed by “Vlad the Impaler.” Thank heavens for leaders like Biden who, unlike his predecessor, cares about the people he represents and the reputation of the country he leads. The sooner Putin disappears from the face of this Earth, the better for us all. Kirk Hazlett, Riverview Those who need to hear The bullies’ pulpit | Perspective, March 27 Columnist Barry Golson is my hero. His article on bullying is spot on. The only problem is getting this message to the ones who need to hear it. We can’t discuss our different political philosophies with friends and family for fear of being ostracized. So the question is, how do we reach the people who are satisfied with getting all their information from Fox News and Facebook? Any ideas? Kirk Heller, Dunedin Hed goes here. Zelenskyy chides the West | March 28 Across the world, year after year, people are subjected to the oppressive powers of others willing to wield them to get what they want without concern about who will be hurt. Oppression takes many forms and can be found in many places. The totalitarian state of Russia is using the most powerful method of oppression of all: killing — killing the children, women and men of Ukraine. What will each of us do when faced with the oppression of others at work or home? In Ukraine? Against NATO? Tyrants win if we do nothing. I hope and pray we all stand up and fight, every time. T.J. Liswith, Seminole