TAMPA — The Florida Gators’ NCAA tournament bubble burst Thursday when a remarkable rally fell came up just short in a last-second 83-80 overtime loss to Texas A&M in the second round of the SEC tournament at Amalie Arena. Hassan Diarra hit the game-winning 3-pointer for the Aggies with 0.4 seconds left, almost certainly keeping UF (19-13, 9-10 SEC) out of the big dance for the first time since Mike White’s inaugural 2015-16 season and raising more questions about his long-term future. “Just another incredible game,” Texas A&M coach Buzz Williams said. That statement seemed unthinkable with how poorly UF started. The ninth-seeded Gators fed their offense through Colin Castleton, their banged-up all-SEC forward. It didn’t work, as UF fell behind by 16 in the first half. UF was sloppy against what White called “another high-level defense in this league.” “We came out, like, lackadaisical,” Castleton said. “Everybody knew it.” Everybody knew the stakes, too. UF likely needed to beat the eighth-seeded Aggies (21-11, 10-9) and perhaps top-seeded Auburn on Friday to make the field of 68. The Gators will remain out because of a pair of obvious offensive issues: outside shooting and turnovers. UF was tied for fourth in the SEC in 3-pointers during the regular season (251) but missed 14 of its first 15. The Gators didn’t make their second trey until there were nine and a half minutes left in regulation. The ugliest stretch came in the opening minutes of the second half: missed 3, turnover, missed 3, turnover. The final mistake led to a highlight-worthy play, with Tyrece Radford throwing an alley-oop off the backboard for Quenton Jackson to slam down, extending UF’s deficit to 12. White said several of UF’s 18 turnovers (17 in regulation) were “where-are-we-going-with-the-basketball?” plays. “If we have 15, you win a game,” White said. “You might win the game with 17 of them.” UF almost won with 18 thanks to a frantic finish. After trailing by 12 with 3:17 left, the Gators rediscovered their outside shot. Phlandrous Fleming knocked down a 3. Kowacie Reeves hit, one, too, and was fouled with 36.6 seconds left for a four-point play. Reeves tied it at 70 moments later by nailing his third 3 of the game. He finished with a team-high 21 points. The Aggies’ at-the-buzzer shot failed, forcing overtime. “We just showed more fight, played better defense, focused on getting stops …” said Castleton, who finished with 15 points and six rebounds. “If we would have done that in the first half, it would obviously be a different story.” UF took its first lead of the game in the extra session with a three-point play by Reeves, and a Fleming fadeaway regained it with 48 seconds left. But the Gators stalled after that. Radford hit a pair of free throws to tie the game at 80, and Fleming’s 3-point attempt got wedged between the rim and backboard to give Texas A&M the final possession. Diarra made it count, draining the winner. “I thought resilience and the character of our guys in overtime was revealed,” Williams said. The same was true for the Gators. Despite having a depleted front court (CJ Felder was out with a hip injury), UF recovered from a dreadful start to take a potential NCAA tournament team to the final second. But resilience and character weren’t enough to overcome sloppy mistakes, missed shots and 30-plus minutes of ugly basketball. Instead, UF had to stew after its earliest conference tournament loss in 14 years, dropping UF to 4-6 in the event under White. “Just didn’t do enough,” White said. “Just didn’t do enough.” • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.