TAMPA — Rena Walters and Ashley Darling say they’re living a nightmare. The two haven’t seen or heard from their youngest sister, Teneisha Griffith, in days. Now, they’re asking for the public’s help. Griffith, 27, was last seen in South Tampa, according to a post at 9:34 p.m. Wednesday on the Tampa Police Department’s Facebook page. Police say she was driving a white 2008 Nissan Altima. Griffith’s family and police are concerned for her well-being, the post said. Tampa police spokesperson Jamel Laneè said Thursday that officers are investigating Griffith’s disappearance. “It just kind of feels like a nightmare that I just can’t wake up from,” Darling said Thursday. Griffith is the youngest of four sisters. In a joint phone call with the Times on Thursday, Walters and Darling described Griffith as intelligent and responsible. Both sisters agreed it is unlike Griffith to just take off somewhere. She was doing well, Darling said, and she had no reason to leave. Walters and Darling said Griffith came home from her job with Amazon on Friday around 3 p.m. She texted her father that night, but friends and family have not heard from her since, they said. Griffith’s family first learned something was wrong when they began receiving Facebook messages from friends saying Griffith hadn’t shown up to a gathering she was expected at Saturday. Griffith also is a mother, and she hadn’t called her 12-year-old daughter in days, the sisters said. The family grew more concerned when Griffith failed to call the girl Saturday or Sunday. Griffith calls her daughter — who currently is staying with Griffith’s mother — every day, they said. On Monday, Griffith’s mother sent a pleading text to a family group chat asking Griffith to call her, but she didn’t get a response, the sisters said. The following day, Griffith was scheduled to work but she never showed, they said. Griffith’s family went to local businesses around her South Tampa home Wednesday to hand out flyers with Griffith’s information and to look for leads. “We’ve been out looking for her, but we’ve had absolutely no leads, no tips — nothing,” Walters said. The sisters believe if they can find Griffith’s Nissan Altima, it will lead to more information about what happened to their sister. Walters and Darling are calling on the public for help. They’re asking anyone with information, however small it may seem, to contact the Tampa Police Department. Police say the number to call is 813-231-6130.  “It doesn’t matter if ... you don’t think it’s a big deal, just please come forward with whatever information you have,” Walters said. “Nothing is too small,” Darling added.