Shifting the clocks back and forth twice a year isn’t popular. A lot of people hate it. The others are too tired from having their circadian rhythms messed with to muster a strong opinion. We jest, of course — but only a little. Let’s quit the clock fussing. Pick a time and make it year-round. Daylight Saving Time? Standard Time? Split the difference at half an hour? Whatever. Just choose one and stick with it. In recent years, the push to end the biannual fiddling picked up steam. In 2018, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio helped create the Sunshine Protection Act, which would move the country to permanent Daylight Saving. The act didn’t really go anywhere until Tuesday, when Rubio asked the Senate for unanimous consent to pass the bipartisan bill. Somewhat surprisingly, his colleagues agreed. Now it heads to the House and, if it passes there, to the president. It’s the best shot of ending the arcane, unneeded and sleep-depriving practice of changing the clocks every November and March. For decades, the country got by just fine without monkeying with the clocks. So why did we start messing with time? Farmers often get credited — or blamed — for adding the national misery to the annual calendar, though author Michael Downing punctured that perception in Spring Forward: The Annual Madness of Daylight Saving Time. “The most authoritative sources agree it was a Pittsburgh industrialist, Woodrow Wilson, a man on a horse in London, a Manhattan socialite, Benjamin Franklin, one of the Caesars, or the anonymous makers of ancient Chinese and Japanese water clocks,” he wrote. “The very thought of Daylight Saving Time seemed to give a lot of people a terrible headache, which made them mad, which made them more likely to make things up.” Just another thing to blame on the clock switch: more lying. We are already screw around with time too much. Think about time zones. They bear little resemblance to sun time. The sun isn’t overhead at noon. For example, because the Eastern Daylight Time zone stretches so far, the sun rose at 7:37 a.m. in St. Petersburg this morning and 6:35 at the eastern extreme of the zone at the West Quoddy Head Lighthouse in Maine, but not until 8:05 on the far west of the zone in Silver City, Mich. Moving the clocks an hour twice every year just makes it all worse. Sticking to one time is hardly subversive or avant-garde. Arizona and Hawaii already stay on one time all year. So does nearly all of Asia and Africa. Argentina does it. So does Brazil, Japan and a large swath of Australia. Those places aren’t perfect, but they haven’t slipped into some scary space-time continuum from which they can’t function. Iceland also stays on one time, and Icelanders are some of the happiest people on Earth. Maybe because they aren’t so unnecessarily tired. Year-round Daylight Saving Time would make our mornings darker for longer, but that’s hardly insurmountable. Lots of cities with dark mornings thrive. Besides, the widespread sleepiness from changing the clocks has consequences, too. Think car wrecks, heart attacks and lost productivity. It feeds our collective caffeine addiction. It makes us irritable in a world that could use more joy. Lock the Clocks, as the slogan says. End the twice-a-year switching insanity. Choose a time and stick with it. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.