FORT MYERS — The Rays made it very clear why they traded for Harold Ramirez on Friday night. “We saw somebody who can hit,” general manager Peter Bendix said. “We like his bat and especially against left-handed pitching. It’s an area where we could use some help right now. So he’s somebody that we think can raise our floor against left-handed pitching and kind of lengthen out the lineup. ... If he can come in and just kind of hit and DH, I think that’s what we’re looking for.” Ramirez, 27, doesn’t have the reputation or resume of some of the bigger names the Rays were chasing in recent weeks. But in 221 games over parts of three seasons with Miami and Cleveland, he had decent numbers: a .271 average, 18 homers, 92 RBIs and a .714 OPS, with similar splits against right- and left-handers. The 5-foot-10, 232-pounder has played all three outfield spots but the Rays have smoother fielding options. Ramirez, who is out of options and can’t be sent to the minors, is expected to join the Rays on Sunday. He had just reported to Cubs camp in Arizona on Friday, having been delayed in his native Colombia with visa issues, so it is unclear when he will be ready for game action. Kiermaier confident of quick return Centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier said he started feeling groin tightness during baserunning drills and batting practice Friday and decided to not risk a more severe injury and instead take a few days for rest and treatment, eyeing a Tuesday return. “I’m not worried about it whatsoever,” Kiermaier said. “It’s just kind of a precautionary thing. It’s still not ideal. But I’ve got my mind set on April 8 (the season opener), and I know I’ll be more than ready for that. This is just another little bump in the road, but if anyone can get through it, it’s me. I promise you that. I’ll be ready to go.” Tyler Zombro gets game action Tyler Zombro took another step Saturday in his remarkable return from traumatic injuries sustained when hit in the head by a line drive June 3, pitching in his first big-league exhibition and retiring both batters he faced. He has been throwing in minor-league camp and backfield exhibitions. “Everything feels the same,” he said. “I don’t think about anything. It’s good to have that little adrenaline kick — game situation, scoreboard, fans, umpires. Much different than the backfield. So it felt really good to be out there.” Cash said a lot of the Rays staff, including Triple-A manager Brady Williams, were excited for Zombro: “That was pretty cool.” Also, Luis Patino had no issues with his previously sore shoulder in a 24-pitch live batting practice session and is lined up to make his spring debut Thursday. Game recap: Red Sox 5, Rays 3 Veteran free-agent addition Corey Kluber worked into the fourth inning in his first spring outing, allowing four runs on three home runs, throwing 36 of 50 pitches for strikes, and feeling good after. “I’m not really worried about results,” he said. “I think the first time out there, No. 1, you want to throw strikes, which I feel like I did a pretty good job of.” … Wander Franco got his second hit of the spring, an RBI single in the third. … The Rays are 1-6-2. … Reliever J.P. Feyereisen impressed with a 1-2-3 seventh. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.