PORT CHARLOTTE — Once upon a time, the Rays flirted with the idea of signing Bryce Harper. This was back in 2019 when spring training was getting underway and Harper was still a free agent on the open market. There was no chance the Rays would come close to offering the $330 million over 13 years that Philadelphia ended up paying, but that’s not the point. The Rays were spitballing a scenario where Harper did not get the mega deal he was seeking, and they might entice him with a massive one-year offer on a contending team. Obviously, it didn’t happen that way. It’s possible it never even went beyond random musings. So why is it relevant today? Because the Freddie Freeman escapade feels like deja vu. Rumors of Tampa Bay’s involvement in the Freeman sweepstakes were, predictably, overblown as the former National League MVP agreed to a six-year $162 million contract with the Dodgers, according to ESPN. Landing Freeman was always going to be a longshot for the Rays, but the idea started gaining traction on social media early Wednesday after the Yankees (signing Anthony Rizzo) and Blue Jays (trading for Matt Chapman) made other moves that seemed to take them out of the running. Suddenly, the Rays were inexplicably left in a small group of bidders that included the Dodgers, Red Sox and Padres. “Those rumors are awesome,” manager Kevin Cash said, with a big grin Wednesday morning. Still, it was never a realistic possibility that the Rays could outbid Los Angeles, even after it appeared the market had gone soft. Not when Freeman turned down the Braves after they supposedly offered $135 million over five years. History says the Rays simply do not dabble in free agents of that magnitude. They’ll often make hefty investments with their own players who remain under team control — such as Wander Franco, Evan Longoria, Kevin Kiermaier, James Shields, Ben Zobrist and Blake Snell — but not free agents. Since Stu Sternberg took control of the team in 2005, the most expensive free agent deal the Rays have signed was a two-year, $30 million contract with Charlie Morton. The idea is that free agents have too much leverage to drive prices up, and the Rays can’t afford to put too much money in one pot. But was it possible the Rays could have been working on a plan — a la the Harper scenario — where they were prepared to offer a jumbo-sized salary in the short term if Freeman didn’t get the deal he wanted? Now that, I would think, would have been entirely plausible. Even if it wasn’t likely to happen. No matter how willing the Rays might have been to shatter their own salary structure, it was still difficult to imagine they could outbid the Dodgers even on a shorter deal. Not to mention, Freeman grew up in southern California and the Dodgers are one of the few teams with better World Series odds than Tampa Bay. So why did the Rays get so much love nationally in the Freeman extravaganza? Part of it could have been an industry-driven attempt to make it appear as if Freeman had more serious suitors than he did. Not only would that help Freeman in negotiations, it would also help rival teams who wanted to see L.A. spend as much as possible on a player. But there was some truth in the rumors. The Rays may not have had much of a chance of signing Freeman, but that doesn’t mean they weren’t going to be prepared if circumstances dropped him in their laps. In that sense, Rays general manager Pete Bendix and baseball operations president Erik Neander are baseball’s version of the Boy Scouts: always prepared. “I say it all the time: I trust the guys,” Cash said. “Pete and Erik are going to do everything they can to improve our club. And I agree with what Erik said at the press conference yesterday, we’re fortunate that we’re setting that bar pretty high because we’re so talented as is.” Usually, when it comes to big contracts, the Rays do more subtracting than adding. Even a team-friendly deal can be bartered to bring back more value down the road. The Freeman rumors were fun while they lasted. Contact John Romano at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @Romano_TBTimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.