First-graders and chaos Golden State takeover | March 16 I have come to have an even higher regard for teachers. This past week, I conducted my first classroom experience as a substitute, overseeing a group of first-graders. While the majority of the children were willing to follow the customary rules of the classroom, it took only two or three disrupters to throw the room into chaos. After reading about the “Golden State takeover,” wherein a minority of aggressive, far-right militia groups want to be free of “rules,” whether by local, state or federal governments, I shall think of my 6- and 7-year olds. Most tried to follow established routine, do their class work and listen to their teacher. In short, they desired stability. Disruption caused by a few led to confusion, bad behavior and tears in all the rest. Not unlike little children, the general public want order in their lives. They want rules for the public good. They want laws in place for the welfare of all. Without law and order, bedlam ensues. L.J. Phillips, Brooksville Thinly veiled threats NATO cites rising Russian troop toll | March 24 By refusing to rule out the use of nuclear weapons, Vladimir Putin’s message to the United States and NATO is unequivocal — stay out of my way or else. In an interview with CNN, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Russia has a “concept of domestic security,” which defines, among other things, when nuclear weapons can be used. Peskov suggested that an “existential threat,” a thinly veiled reference to support of Ukraine by the western alliance, may satisfy that definition and act as a trigger mechanism. The United States, ever mindful of the potential calamitous outcome from direct conflict with Russia, understands that yielding to intimidation tactics can be just as disastrous in the long run. The U.S. and NATO must, therefore, be unwavering in providing essential security assistance to Ukraine. To do otherwise will be viewed by Putin as capitulation and evidence that nuclear saber-rattling is an effective strategy in his pursuit to reestablish the Soviet Empire. Jim Paladino, Tampa Acting up for the camera Jackson seems headed for confirmation | March 24 Does anyone believe that these shenanigans would be going on if the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson’s confirmation to the Supreme Court were not being televised? I have never witnessed such disrespect and demeaning treatment of such a qualified individual. Thank goodness, the judge has kept her cool. Denise Pinsonnault, Spring Hill