TAMPA — Maybe one day the Lightning will pay for their perceived misdeeds. They’ll pay for flirting with salary cap disaster every year; they’ll pay for trading away prospects and high-round draft picks. But this won’t be the day. And the Lightning’s deadline deal for forward Brandon Hagel likely won’t be the one that people point to as the beginning of the end. Given the moves he has made the past three deadlines, Lightning general manager Julien BriseBois looks like he’s playing chess when others are playing checkers, and he’s doing everything he can to put a third ring on his steady hand. When the bar is so high — when hoisting Lord Stanley is the only true show of success — and when you’ve put yourself in a good spot for another deep postseason run, it’s easy to not think about the future. Surely no one believed BriseBois’ bluff, because we’ve seen him downplay expectations before. And even though the Lightning had unprecedented roster inflexibility — and again no cap space — there was every reason to think that BriseBois could upgrade this team again. He certainly made the Lightning a tougher out this season. Hagel, a 23-year-old who projects to have his best hockey ahead of him, is versatile. He can play at all three forward slots and has played on both special teams units this season with Chicago. BriseBois said he has a high compete level. Where he fits in the Lightning lineup remains to be seen, but it’s a nice problem for the coaching staff to solve. “They just know that they’ve added a Swiss Army knife-type player to our toolbox,” BriseBois said Friday. “I think the coaches are going to have to figure out between now and the start of the playoffs how all these players kind of come together and what is the best usage for all those forwards.” Hagel is under his current contract for the next two seasons after this one (and at a cap-friendly $1.5 million hit a year), and even after that, he is only a restricted free agent. So the Lightning can keep him under team control through the 2025-26 season. So even though this move is about now, Hagel fits nicely within the Lightning’s young core group that includes Anthony Cirelli, Ross Colton, Erik Cernak and Mikhail Sergachev, all of whom are 25 or younger, as well as top-line center Brayden Point, who just turned 26 and is signed through the end of the decade. “We’d like to win a championship this year, but we’d also like to win a championship next year and keep ourselves in the running,” BriseBois said. “The terms of (Hagel’s) current contract give us three really good (playoff) runs hopefully at a championship. And because of his age, we continue to control his rights for two more years or potentially five long playoff runs. So that’s a big part of the value that we see in this in this deal.” The move also sends a message to everyone in the Lightning’s locker room, especially the veteran core, that the time is now. Teams wait years for the opportunity that this Lightning team has — to become a dynasty — and the locker room knows the general manager is going to pull rabbits out of his hat to ensure they have their best chance for success. “As a player, you really appreciate the effort because you never know when it’s going to be your year,” captain Steven Stamkos said during All-Star Weekend in Las Vegas. “For us right now, it’s easy for us to dismiss draft picks because we’re probably not going to be around when they come through. We want to win right now, especially as one of the older guys. For (BriseBois) to be able to put the chips all in and get rewarded has been pretty amazing.” Also take into account that not only should the Lightning be a better team with Hagel, but they’re also taking him off the board for other suitors, which is a secondary benefit if Florida and Toronto — two clubs Tampa Bay might have to go through in the postseason — were among the teams that showed interest in Hagel, as was reported. The Blackhawks net a good haul in this trade, getting two NHL-ready pieces in Taylor Raddysh and Boris Katchouk as well as two first-rounders who could help them down the road. But barring Raddysh or Katchouk turning into stars, it won’t hurt Tampa Bay. And if Hagel helps the Lightning win a third straight Cup, the cost is surely worth it. When BriseBois traded away two first-round picks to get Blake Coleman and Barclay Goodrow two trade deadlines ago, he was widely criticized for giving up too much. But now that the Lightning have won two Stanley Cups since, the narrative has changed. They’re lauded as savvy moves. And when you hear BriseBois break it down, it all makes sense. “The value of draft picks lies in our ability to turn them into good NHL players,” he said. “We know what the odds are of a late first-round pick turning into an NHL player, and by trading them away, we’re giving up on those odds of the players we would have selected ending up being key contributors for us down the road four or five years from now. “But instead we’re getting a sure thing. We’re getting a player who’s already established himself in the NHL; he’s 23 years old. We get the benefit of his current contract that provides really good value and we get the benefit of him helping us chase a championship right now instead of maybe those two players turning into NHL players down the road.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.