TAMPA — Cuban dissident Guillermo Fariñas has gone on a hunger strike 26 times and spent 14 years in prison as part of his campaign to bring democracy to Cuba. Now 60, Fariñas, who has been recognized internationally for his fight against totalitarianism, is enjoying new allies worldwide as Cubans at home agitate like never before for freedom from communist rule. “The situation in Cuba is delicate,” Fariñas said in Tampa, during a trip that also included a stop in Madrid to speak with fellow Cuban dissidents and in Brussels to address the European Parliament. “It’s a unique moment, a combination of circumstances. Even among the people who are supposed to support the regime, they are talking and criticizing.” Fariñas is a psychologist and freelance journalist who lives in Santa Clara, in the center of Cuba. He was invited to Tampa by former political prisoners like him who founded the group Casa Cuba in Tampa. He spoke with reporters Thursday, accompanied by Julio Videaud, president of Casa Cuba, and Miami businessman Manuel Milanés. Cuba is undergoing unprecedented change, Fariñas said, reflected in street protests July 11, 2021 — the first of their kind in six decades of communist rule. Civil unrest and an exodus are underway, driven by rising prices; shortages of food, medicine and electricity; and by an explosion in the number of coronavirus cases. Cuban leaders responded by jailing hundreds of dissidents and tightening security across the island nation. As many as 800 people have been indicted in connection with the July 11 protests. The uprising and reaction sparked an international response, under the rallying cry “SOS Cuba.” Marches and rallies have been held in Miami and Tampa, which have two of the top three Cuban populations in the United States, and in Jacksonville. There is a “new wave of urban guerrillas” in Cuba, Fariñas said, and this both worries him and makes him proud. They have burned state-owned cars and buildings and paint walls with messages of opposition and freedom. “Cuban women and young people are the ones who are protesting the most,” said, Fariñas, leader of The United Anti-Totalitarian Forum, or FANTU, and winner of the European Parliament’s 2010 Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought. “They are not politically active, but they want a change. It’s clearly a movement and it gives us hope.’’ They take heart in news that Raúl Castro, former president and brother of the late revolutionary leader Fidel Castro, may be too ill to exert power any more. “But it’s temporary relief,” Fariñas said. “We will see confrontation between these groups.” He said it’s a mistake for world leaders to discount Cuban dissidents who choose violent action over peaceful protest, saying they are only using the tools employed against them by the Cuban regime. “We consider that the war against communism in Cuba is a hybrid war where anything goes,” Fariñas said. “We assume the non-violent part, but we do not reject the brothers who do the violent part.” Any negotiation with Cuban authorities must include the release of all political prisoners in Cuba, he said. Cuba is holding at least 1,167 political prisoners, according to the Madrid-based human rights organization Prisoners Defenders or PD. The approach advocated by Fariñas is rejected by many among the Cuban population in Tampa, a community with deep historic and cultural ties to Cuba that date to the founding of the cigar industry here in the late 1800s. Vicente Amor, owner of the Ybor Art Factory, an artistic project at the Cuban Club in Ybor City, favors talks over violence. “The groups that do not want a dialogue with the Cuban government, that are not willing to listen to the considerations of the other in any matter, and live in the world isolated from their unilateral demands, do not want a solution to the Cuban-American crisis. Only its exacerbation” said Amor, 54. “These people just want confrontation — crises like these and a price in human lives and hardship for all,” he said. “They should, at least, take responsibility for that.” Carlos Lazo is founder of Puentes de Amor, or Bridges of Love, urging the normalization of relations with Cuba. He called for a solution to Cuba’s problems through respect and tolerance, not violence. “We advocate for peace and do what we can for the good of our families on the island and in the United States,” said Lazo, a Spanish teacher at a Seattle-area school. “Good relationships benefit everyone and I mean it.”