NORTH PORT — Shane McClanahan didn’t really want to pick up where he left off, his brutal relief outing in the American League Division Series deciding game at Boston still a painful memory. But in his first outing of this delayed and condensed spring, McClanahan showed every bit the weaponry that turned him into the Rays’ top starter — a fastball that hits 99 mph, biting slider, swing-and-miss curve and an improving changeup. Despite allowing two solo homers on fastballs in the second of his two innings in a 7-7 tie with Atlanta, McClanahan’s high standards for himself were mostly met. “I felt everything was good; ultimately that’s the most important thing,” he said. “I’d be lying to you if I told you I wouldn’t want better results. But this is spring training. Obviously, it’s more about just getting ready for the regular season. So I feel like I’m in a good spot.” That seems likely to lead to a start in the April 8 season opener, though the Rays haven’t announced their plans. For now, manager Kevin Cash was pleased to see the 24-year-old lefty look so sharp, including throwing his first 17 pitches, and 25 of 30 overall, for strikes. “I thought McClanahan looked really good, filled up the strike zone. … His stuff was right in line with what we saw last year,” Cash said. “We anticipated that just from his bullpens, his live (batting practice sessions) — that’s basically where he’s been. So very encouraging.” Bullpen catcher remembered The team had a private, emotional ceremony and installed a banner at the Charlotte Sports Park in honor of bullpen catcher Jean Ramirez, who died by suicide in January. Ramirez’s parents, Toni and Carlos, traveled from Texas and spoke, as did Rays manager Kevin Cash, team interpreter Manny Navarro, and head home clubhouse and equipment manager Tyler Wall. “Certainly the toughest part of our offseason with the Rays was Jean’s passing,” Cash said. “That we were all together able to honor him in some capacity meant a lot to our group. … Certainly people, many people, were emotional. But at the end of it, Jean was so loved, well-respected and was just part of us, and to be able to express that with his parents here means a lot.” The Rays will hold a moment of silence before Friday’s game and have all starters wear Ramirez’s No. 98. There will be additional tributes in May as part of mental health awareness month. Game recap: Rays 7, Braves 7 Promising prospect Tommy Romero had a scare when struck on the back of his right upper arm by a Mickey Pina line drive in the fourth. Romero was removed the game, but said he felt fine, and the team said he sustained only a tricep contusion. … The Rays scored three in the eighth and four in the ninth but Double-A reliever Miller Hogan couldn’t hold a 7-5 lead and they remained winless at 0-4-2. … Cash was pleased with the spring debuts of four relievers projected to have key roles: lefty Brooks Raley; righties JT Chargois, J.P. Feyereisen and Matt Wisler. ... Vidal Brujan made a nifty diving catch after shifting from third base to leftfield in a four-man outfield alignment against Ozzie Albies. Miscellany The Rays reached agreement on salaries at or slightly above the new $700,000 MLB minimum with 20 of their 21 pre-arbitration players; AL Rookie of the Year Randy Arozarena, who is now repped by agent Scott Boras, didn’t agree and was renewed at $716,600. ... Right-hander Luis Patino, who was scratched from a Tuesday start due to discomfort in the back of his shoulder, said he felt good after an 18- to 20-pitch bullpen session in Port Charlotte. Patino is slated to throw a live batting practice Saturday and if all goes well move into game action. “Then I don’t have to worry about it anymore,” he said. Patino would then slot into his first game next week, making it unclear if he will be ready to start the season on time. “Having a short (spring), you kind of have to be careful,” he said via Navarro. “(Pitching coach Kyle) Snyder and I always talk about being transparent, so that’s why I said something (about the discomfort) — to just be transparent with him and let him know that we have to start the season, but we still have to finish the season well.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.