Tampa will host its first Navy Week since 2018, with appearances and events across the area from March 21-27. More than 75 sailors from across the nation will take part in Tampa’s Navy Week, “to bring awareness of the U.S. Navy through community partnerships and volunteering,” a news announcement said. Since 2005, there have been more than 250 Navy Weeks held in more than 90 U.S. cities. The schedule of events includes flyovers at events like the Valspar Golf Championship, the Navy Band performing at Busch Gardens, sailors volunteering at Feeding Tampa Bay and multiple appearances at the Florida Aquarium in Tampa, where they will give presentations and demonstrate naval robots. Navy week events March 20 Rear Admiral Thomas Buchanan, vice director of strategy, plans and policy at U.S. Central Command, and the Naval Reserve Center Tampa Color Guard flyover at Valspar Golf Championship at Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor. March 21 11 a.m.-12:15 p.m.: Robot demos and presentations at the Florida Aquarium by Navy Explosive Ordnance Group 2, Naval Special Warfare, Navy Meteorology, ballistic submarine USS Florida. Noon-2 p.m.: Navy Band, Brass Band, USS Constitution and Navy Ceremonial Guard Drill Team, Tampa native sailors Fleet Outreach Ambassador Team (FLOAT) perform at Busch Gardens. 4-6 p.m.: Navy Band Southeast performs at Tampa International Airport. March 22: 8 a.m.-noon: Explosive Ordnance Group 2, Navy Special Warfare combined training event at Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office. 1-4 p.m.: Sailors from USS Florida, USS Constitution and others pack food at Feeding Tampa Bay. 5:45-7:30 p.m.: Tide Talk at the Florida Aquarium with Robby Smith, supervisory wildlife biologist, Navy Facilities Engineering Systems Command Southeast planning and conservation branch chief. March 23: 7-10 a.m.: Explosive Ordnance Group 2 and Navy Special Warfare combined training at Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office. 10-11:30 a.m.: Tampa Navy Week proclamation, future sailor swear-in and Navy Brass Band Performance, USS Florida, Tampa native sailors  of FLOAT with Mayor Jane Castor at American Victory ship and museum. 11 a.m.-noon.: Navy Explosive Ordnance Disposal Group 2, Hillsborough County Sheriff robot demonstration at the Florida Aquarium. March 24 7 a.m.-noon.: Explosive Ordnance Group 2 and Navy Special Warfare combined training at Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office Training Facility at Tampa Port Authority. Tampa native sailors of FLOAT, USS Florida and other sailors at Habitat for Humanity build (address to be announced). 11 a.m.-1 p.m.: USS Constitution, USS Florida and other sailors serving guests with Feeding Tampa Bay at Trinity Café. 2-4:30 p.m.: Explosive Ordnance Disposal Group 2, Navy Meteorology and Oceanography and other sailors reef dive and also robotics demo at the Florida Aquarium. Navy Band Southeast Popular Music Group performance at the Straz Center for Performing Arts outdoor stage. 5:30-8 p.m.: Explosive Ordnance Disposal Group 2, Navy Facilities Engineering Systems Command Southeast, Navy Meteorology and Oceanography and other sailors at STEM night at the Florida Aquarium. March 25 2-3 p.m.: Navy Band Southeast, Navy Meteorology and Oceanography, Tampa native sailors from FLOAT, USS Constitution demos and presentations at Tinker K-8 public school in Tampa. March 26 Naval History and Heritage Command, Navy Talent Acquisition Group, Navy Facilities Engineering Systems Command Southeast, FLOAT and other Navy sailors at Tampa Bay Airfest. 10 a.m.-noon.: Navy Meteorology and Oceanography, USS Constitution and Navy Band Southeast Sailors at the Glazer Children’s Museum. 4-7 p.m.: Navy Band Southeast Brass Band, Navy Ceremonial Guard and USS Constitution sailors in the Tampa Pride Diversity Parade. 7:25 p.m.: Navy Band Southeast singer Musician Second Class Emily Kershaw sings national anthem, USF NROTC Color Guard and local Navy Sailors cheer with flyover at Tampa Bay Rowdies game at Al Lang Stadium in St. Petersburg. March 27 Naval History and Heritage Command, Navy Talent Acquisition Group, Navy Facilities Engineering Systems Command Southeast, FLOAT and other Navy sailors at Tampa Bay Airfest.