Bucs free-agent cornerback Richard Sherman reportedly has reached a plea deal stemming from his arrest last summer outside his in-laws’ home that prompted a 911 call by his wife. In a deal struck with King County (Wash.) prosecutors, Sherman, 33, pleaded guilty to three misdemeanor offenses: first-degree negligent driving, second-degree criminal trespass and speeding in a roadway construction zone, according to multiple reports. He received a 90-day suspended sentence and was credited for two days served in jail by a district court judge. He also was ordered to pay court costs of $1,305.50 and restitution of a to-be-determined amount to his father-in-law and the Department of Transportation, according to the Seattle Times. Sherman was arrested on July 14, when he crashed his black Mercedes sedan after driving into a highway construction site and leaving the scene. He later attempted to force entry into his in-laws’ residence in Redmond, Wash. Out of football at the time, the three-time first-team All-Pro signed with the Bucs less than three months later in an effort to replenish their injury-decimated secondary. “(The arrest) ended up being a positive thing, and I do feel like I have the support system in my wife and my family and obviously here,” he said upon his arrival in Tampa Bay. “We talked about it, and (the Bucs) have a great team, a great staff, who are very aware and helping.” Days after signing, Sherman logged 58 of 59 defensive snaps to help the Bucs to a 19-17 victory in New England. He tried to play three games in 12 days before his body ultimately betrayed him. He wound up playing in only five games, logging 11 tackles, an interception and a fumble recovery but was placed on injured reserve twice. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.