TAMPA — SEC commissioner Greg Sankey said Tampa has been “absolutely great” as a host for his conference’s men’s basketball tournament and suggested there’s a possibility the event could return here. “Perfect timing for us,” Sankey said Saturday between semifinal games at Amalie Arena. “It’s snowing in Nashville today, so there’s that.” Nashville is the event’s typical site and where it will be through at least 2030 (with an option to extend it through 2035). That’s because it’s a central location for the league, Sankey said. Tampa last hosted the event in 2009. “Couldn’t have picked a better year with the excitement around our basketball,” Sankey said. Sankey has seen the excitement around town. He noted trolley cars on their way to Ybor City that were packed with basketball fans at 11 p.m. Friday. There has also been a strong presence of fans outside Amalie Arena participating in games and other events (though Saturday morning’s rain dampened that intensity). It’s a major improvement from the 2009 tournament, when turnout was one of the lowest this century. “This is what Tampa truly is,” Sankey said. For Sankey, it has been enough to consider Tampa as a future site — even though he’s still pained by his league’s last notable trip here, when Alabama suffered a last-second loss to Clemson in the College Football Playoff national championship at Raymond James Stadium. CFP expansion remains stalled after the ACC, Big Ten and Pac-12 voted down a proposal that would have grown the bracket from four teams to 12. Sankey met with the SEC’s athletic directors, presidents and chancellors earlier this week to discuss the situation for a league that will have 16 members by the time the playoff’s contract ends after the 2025-26 season. “What is it that we want?” Sankey said. “As people staked out their positions, we’ve got to rethink ours.” • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.