PORT CHARLOTTE — With the end of the lockout allowing teams to resume building their rosters for the upcoming season, the Rays and many others have a staggering amount of things to do in a compressed period of time. “Chaotic, exciting, unprecedented,” Rays baseball operations president Erik Neander said Thursday night. “We’re grateful to be swamped right now. We’re excited to be busy and to see our players.” Most prominently, the Rays will be sorting through potential trade options for outfielders Kevin Kiermaier and Austin Meadows while seeking to add a right-handed hitter who preferably can play first base, and potentially more pitching. Among others: • Sorting through logistics of getting players to Port Charlotte from foreign countries and faraway states, scheduling physicals and helping them find housing. • Settling as many of the major league-most-matching 13 arbitration cases as possible by the March 22 exchange of figures, with hearings during the season. • Evaluating the status and projected availability of some of their pitchers who are expected to be returning from injury, such as Jalen Beeks, Colin Poche, Jeffrey Springs and Ryan Thompson. No direct contact was allowed during the lockout. • Analyzing the impact of details of the new labor deal, which will cost them money given increased salaries for young players and limit some of their usual roster manipulating as players now can only be optioned five times in a season. Rays players were excited for the chance to get back to work. “How does one express such happiness?’’ outfielder Brett Phillips said via text. “There are no words that would properly articulate the joy I feel inside! God is Good and Baseball is Back! LETSSSS GOOO!” Kiermaier admitted to living the ups and downs of the negotiations via social media and union updates and was thrilled to get back on the field. “What a relief with how crazy all this has been. Boy, what a great day,” he said. “It just feels like a weight has been taken off my shoulders. And I’m probably speaking for a lot of guys out there, as well.” But Kiermaier acknowledged the uncertainty of not knowing if he will be heading to Port Charlotte at all or having a short stay, given the potential of being traded. The Phillies talked with the Rays about him before the lockout, and the Cubs were among teams with interest at last year’s trade deadline. Kiermaier said he likely would text Neander on Friday to get a sense of his situation. “I’m going to let the dust settle a little bit before I reach out, but I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t curious now that everything’s lifted,” he said. “(Manager Kevin) Cash called me, like, 30 minutes after the agreement was done. So it was crazy to think about — I haven’t heard his voice or had any contact since before all this. And I could tell he’s very excited, as well. “Man, I think we were all waiting for this day. I would have loved it for it to be sooner, but it is what it is. Nothing’s normal anymore in the world. But we got baseball, though, and I can’t speak for everyone, but I’m more than ready, and I can’t wait.” Some players planned to head to Port Charlotte on Saturday to get situated for Sunday’s opening of camp. Others, like reliever Andrew Kittredge, who is driving from his Seattle-area home with his family, will get there a few days later. “We’re thrilled that a five-year agreement has been reached and we can all focus on the season ahead,” Rays president Matt Silverman said. “With an excellent team coming off a 100-win season and a second consecutive American League East title, we can’t wait to get started.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.