One slap, one shooting Academy to probe Oscars incident | March 29 Sadly, in a theater in California, two famous men argue, and one man is slapped in the face. Tragically, in a theater in Florida, two men argue, and one man is shot dead. Choose the result you like least. We can’t change human behavior, but we can discourage carrying guns to places where people gather. Our Florida lawmakers need to change our gun-carrying laws now. Mike Allen, Dunedin A withering of values Academy to probe Oscars incident | March 29 The disgraceful event that took place during the Oscars is just another example of the withering away of the values that once made us the greatest nation in history. Please, no more excuse making, and no more dumbing down of America. What happened to class, dignity, grace, self-respect and respect for others, decorum, etiquette, discipline, integrity, work ethic and the golden rule? The question is whether there is any hope for our culture to walk this back or is it too late. It has nothing to do with race, gender, political orientation or social class. Those are the shiny objects that social and news media, politicians and big tech are trying to use to distract us from the real issue, and that is that we are losing our values and our sense of decency. Charles Michael Sitero, Ormond Beach A veto for no reason DeSantis vetoes congressional redistricting maps, calls for special legislative session | March 30 This past week Gov. Ron DeSantis spent taxpayers’ money on two items that I believe were purely for catering to his base and his reelection. If both Democratic and Republican parties agreed to Florida’s proposed new congressional map, on what grounds does he feel the maps are incorrect? Earlier, the state announced it was joining a lawsuit against mask mandates on planes and public transit that expires April 15. By the time this suit gets to a judge, it will be moot, but our money will be spent on lawyers. Robert John Spencer, Dunedin A flat tax for all Biden budget pivots to deficit concerns | March 29 While probably well-intentioned and appealing to his base, President Joe Biden’s budget proposal that taxing the rich will result is surpluses is rather naive. The “rich” he is targeting are a minuscule fraction of Americans, and they would surely find ways around any increased tax rate. The only fair solution is an idea that always seems to be opposed by one lobby or another, that being a flax tax on all. Tax the rich to balance the budget? I’ve got a bridge in Brooklyn for sale. Kenn Sidorewich, Oldsmar