Pasco — Diesel Diesel is a 2-year-old male dog of unknown breed. He participates in dog play groups and enjoys a good game of chase. He tends to play rough. Diesel prefers females and even shares his beloved rope toy with them. He likes to play fetch and go for long walks. He knows the sit, shake, stay and come commands. He is a bit wary of strangers. For more information, call Pasco County Animal Services at 813-929-1212. Pinellas — Mia Mia is a 13-year-old female dog of unknown breed. She loves people and always has a smile on her face. Unfortunately, she is beginning to go blind and it is confusing her. She needs a quiet home to decompress and feel safe again. A slow introduction into a home with a calm dog may work, but it is recommended she be the only dog in the home. For more information, fill out an application at Fluffanimalrescue.org. Hernando — Dexter Dexter is a brown and white male terrier mix of unknown age. He loves people, but must be the only animal in the home. Because Dexter jumps and runs around when he sees people, he would do best with older children. He has a lot of energy, loves long walks and would make a great running partner. He will be neutered, vaccinated and microchipped upon adoption. For more information, call the Hernando County Animal Services at 352-796-5062. Manatee — Wonder Woman Wonder Woman is a 2-year-old female domestic short haired cat. Her tail was amputated and her mouth was wired shut to heal after she was hit by a car. She has recovered now and enjoys lounging in her bed between meals. She bunny hops around the room when she gets excited. For more information, call Manatee County Animal Services at 941-742-5933. Hillsborough — Walnut Walnut is a 1-year-old female domestic short haired cat. She is very affectionate and loves to cuddle while watching TV with her humans. She gets along with other cats, and tolerates dogs. She has outgrown the “pesky kitten stage” and will make a good companion. For more information, go to StFrancisRescue.org.