The morning after the Bruce Arians bombshell fell on Tampa Bay, another offseason Bucs subplot grew a bit more intriguing. Evidently, veteran defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh wants to play again in 2022. The team’s most prominent unsigned defensive free agent, Suh, 35, posted a tweet Thursday morning congratulating defensive coordinator Todd Bowles on being promoted to replace Arians as Bucs coach and suggesting that Bowles needs to work to get Suh re-signed. “Congrats to Todd Bowles on becoming head coach of a great team that still feels one man light on talent,” Suh tweeted. Bowles will appear with Arians, general manager Jason Licht and co-owner Joel Glazer today at a 1 p.m. news conference. Whether Bowles will address the Suh situation is unclear; Licht offered a vague response Monday at the NFL meetings when asked about the prospect of re-signing Suh. “Still in touch, still talk (with his representatives),” Licht said. “Got a lot of ... balls in the air, a lot of decisions that we have to make here moving forward for different reasons. ... It’s an open door for a lot of different things that can come up, but we’ll see what happens.” Suh and 33-year-old edge rusher Jason Pierre-Paul remain unsigned for 2022. But while Pierre-Paul was limited to 12 regular season games (and only 2-1/2 sacks) by rotator-cuff issues, Suh continued performing at a level (six sacks, 13 quarterback hits in the regular season) belying his birth certificate. Still, Suh’s age and potential salary (he played for $9 million in 2021) could be prompting the Bucs to consider younger, less-expensive options. At any rate, the situation represents one of Bowles’ initial orders of business as the 13th head coach in franchise history. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.