TAMPA — The mission to feed hungry people in the Tampa Bay region received a significant boost Wednesday. Hillsborough County commissioners pledged $5 million toward Feeding Tampa Bay’s new food bank and community outreach center that will expand the amount of food the agency can distribute in a 10-county region. The money comes from Hillsborough’s allocation of federal American Rescue Plan Act dollars targeting COVID-19 relief. “It’s really, I think, the most wonderful investment we could make for the community,” said Commissioner Harry Cohen. “No one should ever be without food or go hungry.” Feeding Tampa Bay plans a 215,000-square-foot food bank and community outreach center at 4000 Causeway Blvd. The agency acquired the property for nearly $7 million in 2021, according to public records. The $50 million project includes a 140,000-square-foot storage and distribution warehouse, a grocery store and restaurant, volunteer space, community room, kitchen and space for the agency’s job training programs in commercial driving, warehouse logistics and culinary arts. The agency currently operates from two warehouses totaling 105,000 square feet. “We’re proud to work alongside you to make sure that our community is well taken care of and we look forward to much more of that in the future,” Thomas Mantz, Feeding Tampa Bay CEO and president, told commissioners before their vote. Nearly 1 million people in the 10-county region of more than 4.3 million residents are considered food insecure. Demand is up 10 to 20 percent currently because of inflation and supply chain issues, said Shannon Hannon Oliviero, the agency’s external affairs officer. The agency aims to deliver 150 million meals annually to end hunger in Tampa Bay. It served 95 million meals in 2021. Feeding Tampa Bay also spent more than $8 million buying food from the start of the pandemic in March 2020 through the end of 2021. It marked the first time Feeding Tampa Bay had to buy food, rather than relying on donations. The agency uses its 60 trucks to retrieve available excess food from 538 grocery stores multiple times each week and delivers it directly to those in need and to 450 charities. It is seeking contributions toward the new facility from each of the 10 counties it serves. It also is trying to obtain $2.5 million in state funding for each of the next two years. Last year, Gov. Ron DeSantis vetoed $400,000 earmarked for the project from the Legislature-approved state budget. The current legislative appropriation request touts not only the expanded food capabilities, but also the wraparound services that would include health screenings, nutrition education, financial literacy and other benefits. It cited an economic study showing the facility would provide a “net economic impact of $381.5 million in value of recovered food, volunteer labor, job training, cost efficiencies, enhanced community value and more.”