Voters will hit the polls Tuesday to decide on elected offices, charter amendments and referendums in 10 municipal elections across Pinellas County. A total of 120,616 registered voters live in the jurisdictions with races on the ballots, according to Pinellas County Supervisor of Elections data. Elected offices are up for grabs in the cities and towns of Belleair Beach, Belleair Bluffs, Clearwater, Madeira Beach, Oldsmar, Redington Shores, St. Pete Beach and Tarpon Springs. In all but two races, the candidate with the most votes wins. Voters in Belleair Bluffs will elect the top two vote-getters in the three-way race for City Commission, and voters in Belleair Beach will elect the top three vote-getters in the six-way race for City Council. Voters who need to find their precinct can do so at votepinellas.com/Election-Information/Find-Your-Precinct-Polling-Place. Those with mail ballots who never sent them can turn them in by 7 p.m. at one of the three Supervisor of Elections offices: 315 Court St., Room 117, Clearwater; 13001 Starkey Road, Largo; and 501 First Ave. N, St. Petersburg. Charter amendments are on the ballot in Belleair, Madeira Beach, Oldsmar and Redington Beach. In Madeira Beach and Redington Beach, voters are weighing in on referendums. Polls are open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. However, most residents who will be casting ballots have already voted by mail. In the largest of the cities, Clearwater, two of the five City Council seats are on the ballot. Seat 4 council member David Allbritton is running for a second term and has campaigned on his desire to finish priorities that were sidelined during the pandemic, like reforming the building department and starting construction of a new City Hall. He is being challenged by community activist Maranda Douglas, who would be the first Black person to serve on the council since 1993. Douglas has run on a platform of supporting small businesses, preparing the city for sea-level rise and supporting affordable housing. Retired technology manager Gerry Lee has run a largely self-financed campaign with a pledge to put “residents first” and focus on basics like street and sidewalk repairs. Seat 5 will be vacated by City Council member Hoyt Hamilton due to term limits. Candidate Aaron Smith-Levin, a defector and critic of the Church of Scientology, has run on a campaign of standing up to alleged abuses by the church in Clearwater. Artist and community activist Lina Teixeira is making her second bid for City Council, running to make the city less reliant on tourism, supporting neighborhoods and maintaining city infrastructure and greenspace. It is the only race that has turned negative, with Smith-Levin and Teixeira trading attack mailers and digs during forums. Jonathan Wade, pastor of of St. James African Methodist Episcopal Church and retired clinical social worker, is running for Seat 5 on a platform of “people over development.” He said he wants to elevate underrepresented residents and neighborhoods while protecting the environment. As an African American, his victory would also diversify the all-white council for the first time in 30 years. Tarpon Springs politics will see a significant shift no matter the outcome of the election. Four of the five at-large seats on the Tarpon Springs Board of Commissioners are up for grabs, and two candidates are running for each seat. Mayor Chris Alahouzos will leave office due to term limits, and commissioners Connor Donovan and Townsend Tarapani are not seeking second terms. Commissioner Costa Vatikiotis is stepping down from his seat one year early to run for mayor. He is being challenged by Robin Saenger, an artist who served on the commission from 2005 to 2011. Oldsmar has a full ballot with a race for mayor, one council seat and 11 charter amendments. Nine other cities had their elections canceled because races there were not contested.