The big story: For a change of pace, let’s talk high school football. Did you know the average football coach at a Florida high school gets paid a supplement somewhere in the $3,000 to $4,000 range to lead a team? They’re usually also a teacher. How do you think that compares to coaches in other states? If you answered anything but “way lower,” think again. In Dallas, Texas, schools, for example, the starting full-time coach salary is $95,000, with the average about $20,000 higher than that. The disparity has University of South Florida head coach Jeff Scott advocating for a big change, as a way to keep good coaches working with the teens. Read all about it here. Meanwhile, USF trustees will consider a proposal today to build a new football field on the Tampa campus. Now on to the politics and such. Tallahassee action The so-called ‘don’t say gay’/’parental rights’ bill headed to the Senate floor for questions and amendments. Protesters gathered at the Capitol to oppose the measure, Florida Phoenix reports. • The bill is set for final consideration today, after hours of passionate discussion and failed amendment proposals on Monday, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. • Several lawmakers had starkly differing views about what the bill says and would do, Florida Politics reports. The Senate adopted a bill that would change university accreditation and professor tenure. The bill, which has not passed the House, would open tenured faculty to five-year performance reviews with potential consequences for “underperformance.” The House approved legislation that would remove teacher evaluations from mandatory contract bargaining. The measure next heads to the Senate, Florida Politics reports. Today in Tallahassee ... The Senate is scheduled to convene at 9 a.m. Bills up for final consideration include HB 1557 on parental rights and gender lessons. • The House is set to meet at 10:30 a.m. Bills up for final consideration include SB 1054 on financial literacy instruction. • Session is scheduled to end Friday. In the districts Spring break is almost upon us. In the Tampa Bay area, that means six school districts plus USF all letting out at the same time. The Pasco County school district is running a deficit in its self-insured health policy. The shortfall is largely because of COVID-related services, and almost all the costs were incurred by unvaccinated employees and dependents. • Florida’s surgeon general questioned the value of vaccinations, on Monday recommending healthy kids not receive the inoculation. The Palm Beach County school district continues to look for students who didn’t return during the pandemic. About 500 children still remain on the whereabouts unknown list, WPTV reports. The Broward County school district is preparing a new “respect and civility” policy. It appears aimed more at parents and visitors than at students, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Broward’s new superintendent is looking to hire two top deputies at more than $200,000 a year each. The proposal comes at a time when the district’s enrollment is shrinking and the state has threatened to pull funding of six-figure salaried district-level administrators, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Wildfires swept across Bay County. Three schools closed because of the danger, the Panama City News Herald reports. Sarasota County voters decide today whether to extend the school district’s local-option property tax. About 20 percent of voters cast early ballots already, the Herald-Tribune reports. From the police blotter ... A Polk County middle school teacher faces misdemeanor battery charges over accusations that she bit two students. The teacher said she was just playing around, WFLA reports. • A Duval County high school paraprofessional was arrested on accusations of sexual misconduct with a student, WJXT reports. • A 5-year-old Broward County student whose outburst left a teacher hospitalized will not face charges, WTVJ reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... It’s Women’s History Month, and the question of what happened to Amelia Earhart is back. National Geographic has a new two-part podcast on the aviator’s mysterious fate that might capture your interest. Rather watch than listen? Hulu’s Biography covered Earhart’s story just less than a year ago. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.