Hollywood producer Will Packer, who is a St. Petersburg native and son of a local civil rights activist, called Will Smith’s slap of comedian Chris Rock “a painful moment for me” on social media. Meanwhile, Stephen A. Smith, radio host and commentator on ESPN’s First Take, went on a tirade Monday night about Smith’s “shameful” behavior. But he later said the real story of the Oscars should be the success of Packer’s Oscars production. Smith, 53, stunned the Oscar audience Sunday night when he got up from his seat and slapped Rock in the face. The comedian, who was presenting an award for Best Documentary, made a joke about Jada Pinkett Smith’s shaved head, which is a result of her battle with alopecia. As the producer of the Oscars, Packer, 47, was criticized for the tweet he posted shortly after the incident. “Welp…I said it wouldn’t be boring #Oscars,” Packer wrote Sunday. A social media user called out Packer for the tweet and told him: “Making jokes about an assault that happened during your show isn’t the congratulatory message you think it is.” Packer retweeted that comment and responded: “Black people have a defiant spirit of laughter when it comes to dealing with pain because there has been so much of it,” he wrote. “I don’t feel the need to elucidate that for you.” Packer also added: “But I also don’t mind being transparent and say that this was a very painful moment for me. On many levels.” ESPN commentator Smith called out Will Smith’s behavior in real time, tweeting that “he just stained the greatest moment of his career.” The next day, the commentator posted a video response saying that the “real story of the Oscars” should have been about Packer’s success. “He helmed the first all-Black producing team that garnered a 56 percent increase in ratings, more than 15 million viewers,” Smith said in a video on social media. “What got lost in this stuff is the first Black-led production by the great Will Packer produced a 56 percent jump in ratings. That’s Black excellence.” Sunday’s Oscars drew 16.6 million viewers on ABC, according to a release from Nielsen’s national ratings, a significant improvement from 2021′s record low. But it is still the second-worst ratings for the Oscars. Early returns showed a 56 percent jump from last year’s 9.85 million total viewers.