Strong, gusty storms began early Saturday in the Tampa Bay area and blew through by around 11 a.m., leaving minor damage and frigid air. Severe thunderstorm warnings were issued for parts of Pasco County around 8:30 a.m. The warnings continued to move south through the Tampa Bay area until around 10:30 a.m. Most of east central and central Florida was in a tornado watch from 4 a.m. to 11 a.m. Saturday. The conditions favored tornados, hail and strong wind, but there were no reported tornadoes in Pasco, Pinellas or Hillsborough. A possible tornado tore through Ocala early Saturday, damaging buildings and homes, according to the Ocala Star Banner. A brief cold snap will follow the severe weather, but temperatures will warm by Sunday afternoon. Cold weather from the north made its way down to Tampa Bay, where the warmer weather clashed with the frigid air, causing severe weather. Wind gusts were around 50 to 55 mph, according to Nicole Carlisle, of the National Weather Service. Sustained winds are likely to be around 20 to 30 mph in the aftermath of the storm while the cold weather sets in. Minor damage was reported throughout Tampa Bay. In Spring Hill, a large tree fell on a car, according to the Spectrum Bay News 9 Weather Twitter account. Another tree uprooted from the ground, falling over a fence in Largo, Bay News 9 reported. In Belleair Bluffs a home had some minor roof damaged from wind, according to Carlisle. Around 12: 30 p.m. over 3,000 customers in Pinellas and Pasco County without power, according to Duke Energy’s outage map. Duke Energy reported 1,717 customers without power, with 94 active power outages in Pinellas. In Pasco, 2,687 customers were without power with 19 reported outages. The causes for the damage were storm related, Ana Gibbs, a spokesperson for Duke Energy said. In Pinellas, where Duke serves 558,863 customers, power restoration was expected by 9 p.m. In Pasco, Duke serves 155,770 customers, and was expected to have power back to its customers by 7 p.m. The headaches continued at Tampa International airport where many flights were delayed or cancelled due to storm bands moving across the state, according to Tampa International Airport’s Twitter. Events from bay to bay have been canceled or postponed for the expected strong weather. The city of Tampa’s River O’ Green St. Patrick’s Day celebration has been postponed a day to Sunday and the inaugural Shamrock Fest at the St. Pete Pier was canceled because of the anticipated rough weather. High temperatures were in the mid 70s Saturday morning, but the temperature will plunge beginning in the afternoon, Tony Hurt of the National Weather Service in Ruskin said Friday. Overnight Saturday into Sunday temperatures could sink into the 40s and some areas could even bottom out in the high 30s. Pinellas County can expect to see temperatures in the upper 30s to around 45 degrees closer to the water. In Pasco County, temperatures could drop to the upper 30s, Clay said. Pinellas and Pasco County opened shelters for those seeking a warm place to stay overnight Saturday into Sunday. This will likely be one of the last cold weather snaps of the year, Hurt said, as the Tampa Bay area transitions into spring.