Given the bounty of dangerous weapons the Lightning possess on the power play, the drought they’ve had lately is difficult to explain. Tampa Bay has had its share of bumps on its longest road trip of the season — slow starts, too many penalties and quiet nights from its top scorers. But going into the second period Wednesday night in Seattle against the expansion Kraken, the Lightning’s 0-for-16 slump on the power play during the trip was glaring. In a game that included 11 penalties, special teams played a key role, and the Lightning emerged from their power-play drought on the back of two man-advantage goals by defenseman Victor Hedman in a 4-1 win at Climate Pledge Arena. The Lightning ended their six-game road trip, which included a season-high three-game losing streak in western Canada, with consecutive wins, going 3-3-0. “The last couple of games, especially tonight, after the first period getting out of the penalty trouble there, I thought we, for the most part, had good possession of the game,” said Lightning captain Steven Stamkos. Stamkos, who was playing in his 900th NHL game, registered three primary assists, setting up both of Hedman’s power-play scores. The Lightning (39-15-6) still committed five penalties, including two in the first 2½ minutes of the game that led to Seattle’s 1-0 lead on former Lightning forward Yanni Gourde’s goal on a 5-on-3 power play. “If there was a flaw in our game tonight, it was the penalties,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “We were very fortunate. Ironically, Gordo gets the goal on us, but to get away with only giving up one, it’s a good job by the PK. But the penalties, we’ve got to be better After Stamkos fed Nikita Kucherov on a 2-on-1 rush for a tying goal in the first — Kucherov’s first goal in his past eight games — Hedman rocketed a 95 mph slap shot from inside the blue line into the back of the net nearside. The shot was aided by Corey Perry’s screen that took away Seattle goaltender Philipp Grubauer’s line of sight, 8:48 into the second period. “When you go through a little cold stretch (on the power play), it just feels like things are never going to go in,” Stamkos said. “And even tonight, we had a couple of power-play goals, we probably could have had more. (Brayden Point) had some good chances. Kuch, a couple of good looks. “So the chances are there. It’s about sticking with it. And tonight we needed special teams to help us win.” The Lightning got a huge goal from Anthony Cirelli 23 seconds into the third period, a chance created by Point’s charge to the net. Point parted two Seattle defenders chasing down a loose puck in the offensive zone. His backhanded shot was stopped by Grubauer, but it took the goaltender out of position. Cirelli’s backhanded shot found its way past several Kraken players in the crease and by Grubauer retreating back into position. Stamkos found Hedman again in the third, this time in the high slot, giving the Lightning a three-goal lead with 5:34 left in the game. Hedman ended the road trip with six goals in six games, giving him 17 on the season and tying him with Nashville’s Roman Josi for second-most among all defensemen. “Teams obviously can’t cover all of us (on the power play) when we’re on the ice,” Stamkos said. “And when (Hedman) starts bombing away from up top, that’s when things just open up. Even if he shoots and it doesn’t go in ... rebounds, retrievals, that’s when the seam passes become effective. As of right now, just trying to get the pucks in the guy’s hands that are hot. He’s been probably our hottest goal scorer of late.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.