What can they say except, you’re welcome? The Tampa Theatre has announced the return of its family classics series, and it includes a sing-along version Moana and a rare animated silent movie. The Disney hit Moana, with songs by Hamilton’s Lin-Manuel Miranda, will be shown on April 3 with lyrics bouncing across the screen. Such as when actor Dwayne Johnson as the demigod Maui sings the fan favorite You’re Welcome, for bringing the tides, the sun, the sky. “Hey, it’s okay, it’s okay. You’re welcome,” he sings. “I’m just an ordinary demi-guy.” The series starting in April is designed to bring some of parents’ most beloved childhood films to the big screen in the historic movie house that first opened in 1926. The April 10 screening of The Sandlot includes photo ops with Raymond and DJ Kitty from the Tampa Bay Rays in the lobby an hour before the screening. The series also includes a 1926 silent animated film, The Adventures of Prince Achmed, which marks the first time a silent film has been included in the Family Favorites series. It is considered to be the oldest surviving feature-length animated film, a theater news release said. “The fantastical fairytale was created by German film-maker Lotte Reiniger,” the release said, “who introduced the technique of silhouette animation – using intricate cut-out shadow puppets shot frame-by-frame against thin sheets of lead – and is venerated as a pioneer for women in the industry.” Family Favorites will play at 3 p.m. on Sundays. Here’s the schedule: April 3: Sing-Along Moana (2016) April 10: The Sandlot (1993) April 17: Hop (2011) April 24: The Adventures of Prince Achmed (1926) The silent film will be accompanied by an original musical score, written and performed by Tampa Theatre’s organist-in-residence Steven Ball on the theater‘s original Mighty Wurlitzer Theatre Organ. Tickets are $10, $8 for ages 2-12. The sing-along Moana and silent Prince Achmed are $13, $11 for kids. Tickets are available at the box office, 711 N Franklin St., Tampa, or online at TampaTheatre.org.