TAMPA — City Council member Guido Maniscalco is calling on Chairperson Orlando Gudes to give up his leadership post on the board in the wake of a report that found he created a hostile workplace for a former aide. In a statement Wednesday, Maniscalco’s said “at the very least” he would expect Gudes to “relinquish his position as chairman of the Tampa City Council,” adding “the accusations in the report are beyond the pale.” Gudes has said he won’t resign his seat after the city on Monday released the results of a seven-month investigation. It found he created a hostile workplace by repeatedly subjecting his legislative aide to sexual harassment and made crude remarks about the woman’s daughter and Mayor Jane Castor. Gudes has denied sexually harassing the aide, saying they were old friends and he failed to set new guidelines in their interactions after he hired her.  He didn’t respond to a request for comment Wednesday. Castor — the subject of gay slurs by Gudes, according to the report — has said she would remove Gudes from office if she could. Two other council members, Luis Viera and Joseph Citro, have called for Gudes to resign. Gov. Ron DeSantis, who has the power to suspend or remove Gudes, is reviewing the matter, his spokesperson confirmed late Tuesday. Maniscalco commended the aide for speaking out. “It truly takes a great amount of strength to do so,” he wrote. “There is absolutely no room or any excuse for this type of behavior towards a woman. The lack of respect is despicable and no one deserves this type of treatment.” The aide has retained Tampa attorney Grady C. Irvin Jr., who announced plans for a news conference Thursday afternoon. In an email late Tuesday, Irvin also called for Gudes to resign. “In the interim, we trust this will give Councilman Gudes enough time to reconsider his current stance not to resign — if he were to resign it would likely save the city and taxpayers protracted litigation costs, and it would allow the victims of any unacceptable and reprehensible conduct on the part of this elected official an immediate avenue to begin the healing process,” the statement read. The City Council has a regularly scheduled meeting Thursday. At that meeting, council members could vote to remove Gudes from his chairpersonship, said City Council attorney Martin Shelby. The council’s rules and procedures state that the chairperson serves at the pleasure of the council, Shelby said. Maniscalco said he wouldn’t make a motion to remove Gudes, but said he hopes he will resign his leadership post before the council meeting. In a 16-page defense of his client, Clearwater attorney Ryan Barack contested the city’s findings, noting that his client has denied the most disturbing allegations, including making a comment about the breasts of the aide’s teenage daughter. Instead, Barack wrote, Gudes was reinforcing, as her mother’s friend, her desire that her daughter not slouch. Gudes never mentioned the girl’s breasts, Barack wrote. Gudes also denied making derogatory comments about Castor or having referred to a fellow council member as a “p---- motherf---er.” Barack repeatedly took issue with the fairness of the investigation, saying it favored the credibility of the aide over Gudes and was biased against him. And Barack raised questions about the credibility of the former aide, citing as an example her allegations about Gudes’ alleged comments about Castor. “The assertions about credibility in the document are illogical. The Claimant has a strong motivation to lie about salacious statements allegedly regarding the Mayor because she knows those comments will get attention. And on the contrary, (Gudes) has no incentive to publicly discuss the sex life of the Mayor and denies having done so,” Barack’s response stated. Gudes did not make sexual advances or inappropriately touch the aide or anyone else, Barack wrote, adding that while his client made some inappropriate comments, they didn’t rise to the level of sexual harassment. Council member Charlie Miranda, who has served on the City Council on and off since the 1970s, said he wouldn’t weigh in on whether Gudes should resign, but said the controversy was unprecedented in his memory. The report on Gudes was released just two weeks after John Dingfelder resigned his seat to resolve a lawsuit involving public records violations. The city attorney’s office was also conducting its own review of Dingfelder’s handling of public records in light of the suit. “This is the first time I’ve seen it like this. It’ll be a little more strenuous on all of us, but we’ll get through it,” Miranda said. The all-male council is scheduled to vote on Dingfelder’s replacement next week. Maniscalco said the atmosphere around the council offices is “quiet and somber,” unlike anything he’s seen since being elected in 2015. “A lot of doors are closed. People are guarded,” he said. The bombshell report isn’t the first time Gudes has been in the spotlight for inappropriate remarks. In January 2020, Gudes made an antisemitic remark to a Times reporter during a phone call. He apologized and later worked with Jewish leaders to craft a nonbinding resolution for the city to apologize for its racist history. Gudes, 54, a retired Tampa police officer, was elected in 2019 to represent a district covering East Tampa, Ybor City, downtown and parts of West Tampa. Like the other members of the nonpartisan board, he is a Democrat. The City Council meeting will begin at 9 a.m. Thursday and be  televised on Spectrum channel 640 and Frontier channel 15. It’s also streamed on the city’s website at tampa.gov/Livestream and on the city’s YouTube channel.