PORT CHARLOTTE — The last image of Shane McClanahan from the end of the Rays’ 2021 season was a rough one. Cameras caught the emotional reaction to his brutally bad relief outing in a playoff game the team had to win. The video clip — which went on to be widely circulated — showed him in the tunnel behind the Rays’ Fenway Park dugout throwing his glove, then a chair. The lasting image for McClanahan wasn’t good either. He and fellow rookie Wander Franco sat silently on the bench long after the Sox scored the winning run in the ninth, then wildly celebrated the 6-5 walkoff win that clinched the Division Series, eliminating the favored 100-win American League East champions. Both experiences taught McClanahan something. The 24-year-old lefty starter never wants to be in either spot again. “Obviously, I was upset,” McClanahan said. “It’s like I let those guys down. We bust our butts all year, and you want to do everything you can to help and it just didn’t go my way that day.” McClanahan had followed up a sensational rookie season in which he emerged as a frontline starter with a solid outing in Game 1 of the best-of-five series, working five scoreless innings in the Rays’ 5-0 win. Four days later, the Rays asked him to help save a season suddenly on the brink, summoning him in the third inning of a scoreless Game 4. McClanahan was pitching with less rest and in relief for the first time all year and quickly made a mess. He allowed a leadoff single, a one-out walk and a two-out three-run homer, then three more hits in succession to give Boston a 5-0 lead. “I wanted to put my team in a good spot to win,” McClanahan said. “And I didn’t do it. I didn’t execute.” That the Rays came back to tie by the eighth inning, with the Red Sox then rallying to win off J.P. Feyereisen in the ninth, was of little solace to McClanahan. He was not made available to reporters after the game. “I wasn’t mad. I was more disappointed in myself that I let the team down,” McClanahan said. “Obviously everybody’s going to say ‘You know, you gave it your all. You didn’t let anybody down.’ “But, internally, you know you want to help this team and you don’t want to be that guy. … You’ve just got to have a quick memory as a pitcher.” Other Rays said they appreciated McClanahan’s attitude — catcher Mike Zunino calling him “the ultimate competitor — and definitely didn’t feel he let them down. “No one thought that,” outfielder Brett Phillips said. As much as McClanahan wanted to forget what he did on the mound, he said he and Franco wanted to remember what it felt like to watch the other team celebrate. “That was one of those where it’s good to see where you want to be,” McClanahan said. “It’s good to visualize. They just won the ALDS. Obviously you expect them to be happy and stuff. So you want that. You want to see what it’s like to win.” McClanahan has had a rapid rise. The first-round pick out of USF in 2018 made an unprecedented big-league debut in the 2020 postseason, then after opening last season at Triple-A, came up in late April and seized a key spot in the rotation and earned the start in the playoff opener. “Sometimes we lose perspective of where guys are in their career,” Zunino said. “He’s mature beyond his years. To have a guy that, he’s going to be frustrated with bad outings, he’s going to be mad at himself, but he never points fingers. “He knows who he is. And that growth from 2020 to now, he’s let that fuel him.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.