We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “No, Crypto Isn’t Helping Ukraine,” by Peter Howson in Jacobin at bit.ly/3MZGdO6. The context, from the author: In times of war, stocks in weapons companies have always been a safe investment. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has shown that wars are also a big opportunity for crypto bros — another group of disaster capitalists profiting off other people’s misfortune. The excerpt: Donating crypto to governments can have unexpected consequences. Your everyday crypto enthusiast is rarely an expert in international relations or humanitarian aid. But with crypto giving, donors can bypass the experts while enabling despotic regimes that they don’t understand, just because they’ve joined the crypto bandwagon. History shows crypto enthusiasts tend to support corrupt TikTok despots of any ideological persuasion, so long as it suits the agenda of “number go up,” helping to fund ISIS operations and the Taliban in Afghanistan. ... Putin’s wingman, Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus has also been calling on his countrymen to mine Bitcoin for economic development and “human rights,” notwithstanding his own full-scale assault against civil liberties. From “Leaked Kremlin Memo to Russian Media: It Is ‘Essential’ to Feature Tucker Carlson,” by David Corn in Mother Jones at bit.ly/3w9Z1UL. The excerpt: The Russian government has pressed outlets to highlight the Fox host’s Putin-helping broadcasts. The excerpt: The document — titled “For Media and Commentators” — was produced, according to its metadata, at a Russian government agency called the Department of Information and Telecommunications Support, which is part of the Russian security apparatus. It was provided to Mother Jones by a contributor to a national Russian media outlet who asked not to be identified. The source said memos like this one have been regularly sent by (Vladimir) Putin’s administration to media organizations during the war. Independent media outlets in Russia have been forced to shut down since the start of the conflict. From “Why the ‘Reagan Revolution’ Scheme to Gut America’s Middle Class is Coming to an End,” by Thom Hartmann in The Hartmann Report at bit.ly/3qxlBmL. The context, from the author: Ronald Reagan and his conservative buddies intentionally gutted the American middle class, but they did so not just out of greed but also with what they thought was a good and noble justification. The excerpt: Americans are now watching, for the third time in just 30 years, a Democratic president clean up the economic and social debris of a prior Republican presidency. They’re starting to figure out that crushing the middle-class didn’t produce prosperity and stability, but instead destroyed tens of millions of people’s lives and dreams. FROM THE RIGHT From “A Hard Look at the Risk of a Putin-Ordered Tactical Nuke,” by Jim Geraghty in the National Review at bit.ly/3JiaQMl. The context, from the author: It’s time to take a long, cold, hard look at just what could lead to Vladimir Putin using a tactical nuclear weapon, the devastating effects of such a weapon, and how the U.S. can deter that horrific scenario. The unthinkable isn’t quite so unthinkable anymore. The excerpt: The official Russian military doctrine (is) “escalate to deescalate” — that is, “If Russia were subjected to a major non-nuclear assault that exceeded its capacity for conventional defense, it would ‘de-escalate’ the conflict by launching a limited — or tactical — nuclear strike.” In other words, Russia’s official strategy when losing a war is to escalate it by using tactical battlefield nukes in order to “deescalate” it on favorable terms. ... The “tactical” in tactical nuclear weapon means that the nuke is launched from a shorter distance away; these aren’t the giant intercontinental ballistic missiles launching out of silos that we’re used to seeing in doomsday movies. They’re usually land-based missiles “with a range of less than 500 km (about 300 miles) and air- and sea-launched weapons with a range of less than 600 km (about 400 miles)” — missiles larger than a man but small enough to be driven around on truck-like launcher vehicles. From “Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas Wants a Section 230 Reckoning,” by Kara Frederick in The Federalist at bit.ly/3tepcaJ. The context, from the author: The Supreme Court justice recently hinted that Section 230 — “the 26 words that created the internet” — could soon be in the highest court’s crosshairs. The excerpt: In the simplest of terms, Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act grants immunity from civil liability for third-party content hosted on “interactive computer services.” On March 7, (Supreme Court Justice Clarence) Thomas identified two foundational issues with the application of this statute in its current form. First, the courts’ broad interpretations have led to sweeping immunity for today’s tech platforms. Second, Big Tech companies never fail to abuse the privilege. Thomas asserts that expansive interpretations of Section 230 from 1996 onward may clash with the original text. He contends that arguments favoring this broad immunity “rest largely on ‘policy and purpose’ ” instead of the statute’s plain text. From “Make Skilled Trades Great Again,” by John Mac Ghlionn in The American Conservative at bit.ly/3KObykF. The context, from the author: Men are depressed, suicidal and falling behind women in four-year colleges. Revitalizing trade schools can help. The excerpt: Unlike so many tedious computer jobs, skilled trade professions are intrinsically rewarding. ... There are, we’re told, far too many economically unattractive men in the U.S. Trades offer a solution, largely because they pay well. Very well. Not only do they provide a great degree of autonomy, they provide a stable source of income. For those who say money isn’t everything, I say, yes, but it’s not nothing. Good luck pursuing the American dream making $12 an hour.