We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “Zelensky Thirst Is Making Liberals Look Like Absolute Clowns,” by E.J. Dickson, previewing a Rolling Stone podcast. The context, from the author: Every few years, during times of great political and sociocultural turmoil, liberals seek respite by sexually objectifying the first halfway decent-looking man they see. The excerpt: The impulse to sexualize (the Ukrainian president), a man whose country is under siege ,seems at best inappropriate and at worst wildly ill-advised. From “How Greece Secretly Adopted the World’s Most Brazen — and Brutal — Way of Keeping Out Refugees,” by Lauren Markham in Mother Jones. The context, from the author: The technique is often called a “pushback” — in legal terms, “refoulement” — an extrajudicial deportation of an asylum seeker before they’ve had a chance to pursue their claim. Refoulement is a dirty word in international law; a country cannot legally expel a person asking for protection before they’ve had a chance to plead their case. The excerpt: While occasional pushbacks have been documented in Greece since the 1990s, in the past two years they have become a routine practice, if not outright policy—stunning in their scope, brazenness, and cruelty. Greece is not alone. The Australian Navy has turned boats of asylum seekers back to Indonesia and Sri Lanka or forced them onto neighboring islands instead of letting them land on Australian shores. Thai authorities have dragged rickety crafts packed with asylum seekers back out to sea; in 2015, pushbacks resulted in the deaths of an estimated 370 people. From “To Rebuild a Universal Welfare State, We Need to Scrap Means-Testing,” by Danny Wardle in Jacobin. The context, from the author: When welfare and public services are means-tested, it makes them less efficient and less accessible. Worst of all, by limiting access to the “deserving poor,” means tests undermine the idea that social welfare is a right. The excerpt: Rights are universal. If welfare is not universal, then it is not a right. FROM THE RIGHT From “Do Americans Suddenly Want to Pay More for Gas?” by Kyle Smith in The National Review. The context, from the author: The Biden administration is telling itself a comforting story that Americans suddenly want to pay higher gasoline prices. The excerpt: Yes, there is a poll suggesting that Americans are in line with Stephen Colbert, who wants to pay $15 a gallon for gasoline to punish Vladimir Putin. But the same poll also says America wants to start World War III. As always, polling continues to be of limited utility when deciding complex questions that require actual knowledge of, and proper weighing of, the implied costs and benefits. From “Trump Nails Biden to the Wall With Just Five Words,” by Nick Arama in Red State. The context, from the author: Former President Donald Trump released a statement a few days ago, and perhaps never a truer statement was spoken. These five words just say it all and nail Biden to the wall: “Do you miss me yet?” The excerpt: When President Joe Biden announced that he was going to ban buying Russian oil (without increasing American production), he guaranteed another spike in prices. Although not buying from them will hurt, a spike in prices ironically will also help Russia unless you increase production. This was all predictable and all avoidable — with a different person in the office. From “Primed For Collective Guilt,” by Bradley Devlin in the American Conservative. The context: Anti-Russian feeling has gone around the bend, and the phenomenon speaks to our current cultural moment in bigger ways. The excerpt: The anti-Russian fervor is so ludicrously out of control that not only is it targeting Russian people, but Russian animals. Over the weekend, the Fédération Internationale Féline (FIFe) said that, for the next three months, Russian cats are banned from competing. ... “The Board of FIFe feels it cannot just witness these atrocities and do nothing,” the statement said. We need a total and complete shutdown of Russian Blues and Russian Hairlesses until we can figure out what is going on! Going after Russian conductors and cats makes it all seem so absurd. Nevertheless, these are the conclusions drawn by a culture primed for a thorough embrace of collective guilt.