A secret weapon U.S. and European officials don’t see a clear endgame in Ukraine | March 11 Presently hidden in Ukrainian closets, bombed-out apartments and destroyed homes lurk thousands of weapons that can readily be put into service in the war. When the Russian soldiers become bogged down from lack of ammunition, fuel, replacement parts, food and water, it is the moment to deploy the most powerful tactical tool available — grandmothers. They should emerge from their lairs offering borscht, pierogis, varenyky and vodka, asking the boys to put down their arms and pick up their spoons. Think of how immediately and completely the attitudes and the ultimate affections of the occupying soldiers would change. Bruce LeBaron, St. Petersburg Parents know best What the ‘don’t say gay; bill gets wrong about Florida classrooms and kids | Column, March 9 Children go to school to learn the three Rs, along with English, science and history. I believe that any discussions regarding sexual orientation and gender should come from parents, not teachers. Sensitive and controversial topics, which can confuse and upset children, have no business being discussed in the classroom. Parents know their children best. And it is up to them to discuss such personal issues with their children at their own discretion. Classrooms should be focused on academically preparing children for college and teaching them basic life skills. JoAnn Lee Frank, Clearwater Send defense systems now Pentagon rejects NATO allies giving jets to Ukraine | March 10 As a former U.S. Army ordnance officer I am appalled at the apparent lack of response — indeed, nonchalant treatment — to the critical need for massive delivery of anti-aircraft missile defense systems for Ukraine now. A few days from now may well be too late, as the ability to defend the supply lines may disappear. Do it by order of the secretary of defense, if possible, and bypass the dithering of politicians if necessary. Ukraines are dying by the minute. Hal Hultman, Seminole