FORT MYERS — Tim Beckham had a long history with the Rays as the promising but ultimately failed 2008 No. 1 overall draft pick who was traded for a minor-leaguer in July 2017. Thursday, he gave the team something to remember him by, launching a loud 404-foot, 105.4 mph homer, then taking a long look into the Tampa Bay dugout and a rather leisurely stroll around the bases in the Twins’ 7-1 win. “It felt pretty good,” Beckham told the Minneapolis Star Tribune. “It meant a little something. We’re playing ball, man, we’re having fun. Let the kids play, right?” Beckham, 32, said he felt he left the Rays “on great terms” and “could care less” if anyone said anything from their dugout. Rays manager Kevin Cash said the team had no issue at all with Beckham’s actions. “He was excited, and I was happy for him,” Cash said. “Beck’s a good player. Glad to see he’s healthy. He made a nice play in the field, and he hit a bomb.” Poche finally makes it back A regular-season outing will mean more, but Thursday was a milestone for lefty reliever Colin Poche. It was the first time he pitched against another team since the March 12 last game of spring training 2020. He injured his elbow in the Spring 2.0 lead-up to the abbreviated 2020 season and underwent a second Tommy John surgery. “Just to get out there again, with the uniform against another team was just awesome,” Poche said. “Just kind of a product of the last 19, 20 months of work. It’s just an early step towards, obviously, the ultimate goal.” Poche worked an 11-pitch, 1-2-3 sixth and said he felt like a regular pitcher, not one coming off injury. Cash said he liked what he saw, including a slight uptick with Poche’s fastball, in the 92-94 mph range: “He certainly looked like he was feeling good.” Pitching coach Kyle Snyder also was impressed and grabbed a ball from the game to give Poche to mark the occasion. Game report: Twins 7, Rays 1 Drew Rasmussen gave up a single and a homer to start the game but ended up pleased with his two-inning outing, noting he worked on throwing more sliders and curves early in counts. … Lefty Jeffrey Springs also made a solid return from an extended absence, having undergone right knee ACL repair in August. …. Veteran relievers Pete Fairbanks and Andrew Kittredge and new addition Jason Adam earned Cash’s praise. ... Shortstop Wander Franco went 0-for-3 and is 1-for-11 (.091) for the spring. Miscellany The Rays are 0-5-2 for the spring, and Cash is eager to shake hands after a game: “Yeah, that’d be nice. Ideally, it’ll happen sooner than later.” … Outfielder Randy Arozarena, who has won ALCS MVP and AL Rookie of the Year awards, said he was not upset to have his contract renewed by the Rays at $716,600, just above the new minimum. “That’s just the process of the game,” he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I’m just happy to be here and have an opportunity to still be here.” … Reliever Luke Bard, who pitched parts of 2018-20 with the Angels (3-3, 5.05 in 46 games) then missed 2021 recovering from hip surgery, signed a minor-league deal with an invite to camp. … Starter Shane Baz said his elbow is already feeling better from Monday’s arthroscopic surgery to remove a loose body and he was relieved the discomfort was nothing more serious. He won’t throw for two-three weeks and then build back up. …. There will be a moment of silence before Friday’s game to honor bullpen catcher Jean Ramirez, who died by suicide in January, and Rays starters will wear his No. 98. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.