TAMPA — LSU coach Will Wade declined to comment three times about the NCAA notice of allegations his Tigers reportedly received this week. “I certainly look forward to commenting when it’s all over,” Wade said, “but until then, they won’t allow us to comment.” Wade has been under scrutiny for years after being caught on an FBI wiretap talking about making an offer to a prospect. ESPN reported that allegations include offering or facilitating “impermissible payments” to at least 11 recruits. The trouble was not a distraction Thursday. Fifth-seeded LSU led by as many as 25 in the first half against Missouri and cruised to a 76-68 win to set up a quarterfinal meeting with Arkansas. The defeat dropped Missouri to 12-21 and might be the final game for coach Cuonzo Martin, who fell to 78-77 in five seasons with the Tigers. Athletic director Desiree Reed-Francois told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch she will meet with Martin “in the next couple of days.” “I’m at peace with whatever,” Martin said. Martin, who led the Tigers to the NCAA Tournament just last season, had an ardent supporter Thursday in South Carolina counterpart Frank Martin (no relation), who suggested the notion of Missouri moving on from its fifth-year coach is ludicrous. “I don’t know what this business is coming to when men like him get judged on what they can and can’t do, and you get judged this year in this league, coming off the year that he had last year,” Frank Martin said Thursday evening. “This business needs more Cuonzo Martins.” Not-so neutral site Amalie Arena was technically a neutral site, but it didn’t feel that way for Texas A&M. Florida had a heavy and, at times, loud contingent of fans. “They had a very good crowd out there, a very good environment, so it definitely does feel like a road win,” said Texas A&M’s Hassan Diarra, who hit the game-winning 3. “We even took the road game pic, so looking to post that soon.” The announced attendance for the early session was 10,295. Suits for Buzz and Ben If you’re wondering why Texas A&M coach Buzz Williams is one of the only coaches still wearing a suit instead of a polo shirt or sweats, there’s a reason. Williams said he asks his players to give their best every day. “To me, that’s in spirit, that’s in body language, that’s in tone of voice, and so I want to be as respectful to the game and to all of the coaches that I admired as a kid growing up,” Williams said. “Bill Snyder wore a three-piece suit to work every single day. Eddie Sutton wore a sport coat and shirt and tie to work every single day. My junior college coach wore a shirt and tie to work every single day. And so for me not to be my best while holding our guys to some standard of being their best, that’s important to me.” After the game, Williams changed out of his three-piece suit and into a T-shirt for postgame interviews. Not to be outdone was Mississippi State’s Ben Howland, who wore a suit on the sideline for the first time since at least 2020, just before the global pandemic struck. “I just thought it would be good to be really good-looking here,” Howland said following his team’s 73-51 rout of South Carolina. “I’ve got to work at it. I’ve got my family here, my daughter came out, my sister and her husband, my brother-in-law and his wife, my cousins. I want to look good.” • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.