TAMPA — Tampa City Council members on Thursday approved delaying a discussion of the controversial City Center project for two weeks, but repeated requests for Mayor Jane Castor’s staff to appear publicly to defend the bidding process for the $108 million municipal services center. It’s unclear if that will occur. Castor’s spokesperson, Adam Smith, didn’t respond when asked if the mayor’s staff would comply with a written request by council chairperson Orlando Gudes for city staff to appear on March 17. Gudes wants to hear the administration present its case that it acted legally in awarding a contract for the project and to address concerns by Black community leaders that the East Tampa complex will be built with the help of minority-owned companies. Instead, Smith issued a statement: “The bottom line is this project unanimously approved by city council members is terrific for workforce development, for East Tampa and the whole city. The City Attorney’s Office was clear about litigation risks, and we have an obligation to protect taxpayers,” Smith’s statement read. On Wednesday, Gudes said city staff needed to appear in person to discuss the project at 2515 E Hanna Ave that was awarded to DPR, a national construction firm with a local office. He said he wants to know why the project was not rebid even after its scope increased from $10 million to at least $108 million since it was first awarded in 2015. Gudes’ memo was a reaction to one penned by city attorney Gina Grimes the day before. In that memo, Grimes informed council members that they should avoid discussing the DPR contract at the risk of facing litigation and that staff would not appear in person to discuss or answer questions about the project. At Thursday’s meeting, council member John Dingfelder said he supported moving ahead with the DPR contract, but asked Castor’s legal department not to “tie the council’s hands” by advising it to avoid a discussion. He said he still has questions about whether the company was going to abide by the city’s apprenticeship ordinance and meet women and minority business participation goals. Council member Bill Carlson said he and his colleagues “weren’t elected to make anyone politically happy.” He said it was the City Council’s duty to scrutinize issues like the City Center project. “It’s our responsibility to ask questions,” Carlson said. When Carlson started to discuss Grimes’ memo, City Council attorney Martin Shelby attempted to cut him off, saying he shouldn’t discuss an item that had already been continued until the next meeting. Shelby’s behavior drew a sharp rebuke from Gudes, who scolded him by saying he shouldn’t be worried about “making friends” with the administration and wanted to make it “crystal clear” that Shelby worked for council members, not the administration. He told Shelby not to worry about “political fallout” —although Gudes didn’t elaborate on what that may be — and to provide council members with his best legal advice. Shelby agreed.