Blame Putin, not all Russians Russian businesses face backlash | March 18 I, like most Americans, am firmly behind Ukraine in dealing with the invasion by Russian forces. That said, I’m am also behind those Russians who are sympathetic to Ukraine and who may even have relatives there. This war was not started by Russia; it was started by Vladimir Putin. Unfortunately “anything Russian” is being threatened and boycotted here in the United States. I’m reminded of the Japanese-Americans, most of whom were American citizens, who were relocated to internment camps during World War II. We should remind ourselves and others that the Russian people are not the enemy. Russian President Putin is. George Chase, St. Pete Beach The answer? Greenwich Mean Time No more fall back, spring forward | Editorial, March 18 We have taken the first step in resolving the confusion and discomfort from the way we look at our clocks. The sun doesn’t care what number your clock shows. Now let’s do away with time zones. What a useless waste. Let’s all go by Greenwich Mean Time and be done with it. Whenever you see the time for an event you have to ask, ”Is that local time or the time at the location of the event?” If the time was listed as 0900 (GMT) instead of 9 a.m. (EDT), for example, there would be no ambiguity or confusion. And then let’s go on to the next step and use a 24-hour clock instead of having to specify a.m. or p.m. We’re on the right track, but let’s not stop before the journey is complete. Tony Delcavo, Bradenton Make it right Florida Legislature still taking aim at school districts that had mask mandates | March 11 During an August 2021 Hillsborough County School District board meeting, board members were reminded of their oath to support, protect and defend the Constitution and Government of the United States and the State of Florida. They were legally advised that mandating masks without parental opt-out would risk withholding state funds. “If the board decides to make it (the mask mandate) more restrictive by requiring medical opt-out, there are risks involved …” stated Jim Porter, the Hillsborough County School Board attorney. In a vote of 5-2, board members mandated masks without parental discretion, violating the Florida Department of Health’s emergency rule. Today, we face the aftermath. School board members take an oath to defend the law, whether they agree with it or not. Rather than individual accountability for failing to lawfully uphold their duties, the consequences of the board’s decision will be collectively imposed on the entire district community by removing the school district’s eligibility to receive funds from the 2022-2023 Florida School Recognition Program. In 2019, this program rewarded Hillsborough schools more than $9 million. Aspirations for the future of our district can be no higher than the expectations we have for the choices our elected board members make. School board members Lynn Gray, Jessica Vaughn, Karen Perez, Henry “Shake” Washington and Nadia Combs must take responsibility for the significant financial impact their decision has on hundreds of thousands of students, faculty and staff. They should share how they plan to rectify this collective loss with their constituents, parents, teachers, staff and the community. Elisabeth Thomas, Tampa It’s crypto to me Tobacco industry nabs win | March 18 I read the article twice to try to understand the Florida Supreme Court’s ruling concerning “Engle progeny” cases. Through Wikipedia, I was able to discern what “Engle progeny” was, but just like trying to decipher cryptocurrency, I was unable to understand the legal path through which the judges came to their conclusion. Comparable to unraveling blockchain, I was muddled in blockbrain. David Lubin, Tampa