ACON Laboratories wants U.S. consumers to use its “Flowflex COVID-19 Antigen Home Test,” not its “Flowflex SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Rapid Test (Self-Testing)” because the latter is a counterfeit test — in the United States. As ACON explained in its Food and Drug Administration-posted recall notice, it knows about “the U.S. distribution of unauthorized, adulterated and misbranded counterfeit product” with the Flowflex SARS-CoV-2 packaging. “ACON Laboratories is not importing the ‘Flowflex SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Rapid Test (Self-Testing)’ into the U.S. as it is only authorized for sale in Europe and other markets,” the alert says. “If you have received the ‘Flowflex SARS-CoV-2 Antigen Rapid Test (Self-Testing)’ with the blue box in the U.S. market, you should stop using this product and dispose of it,” ACON says. “The product has not been approved, cleared, or authorized for use in the U.S.” Also, ACON would appreciate if you’d contact them at 1-800-838-9502 or flowflex_support@aconlabs.com and let them know where you got the counterfeit test. Also, the FDA would like to know via its MedWatch Adverse Event page or by filling out a form you can get by calling 1-800-332-1088. • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for eligible recipients are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your ZIP code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • More coronavirus coverage OMICRON VARIANT: Omicron changed what we know about COVID. Here’s the latest on how the infectious COVID-19 variant affects masks, vaccines, boosters and quarantining. KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? Here’s the answers to your questions. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.