ST. PETERSBURG — So, how hard was that? All it took for baseball to get close to a labor agreement was 90 days, an apocalyptic threat and complete disregard and scorn for the millions of fans who went to bed Monday night believing opening day was certain to be postponed. Piece of cake, right? The good news is owners and players seemed to be somewhat closer to a deal early Tuesday morning that might actually allow the Rays to have their 2022 opener in Boston on March 31 as planned. But it’s fair to ask the final cost of that potential agreement. And I’m not talking about the increase in the minimum salary or other changes in baseball’s collective bargaining agreement. What would it have cost the owners in terms of integrity with their employees? It seems clear they did not negotiate in good faith, instead dragging this out until the final minute to make sure they could get every concession possible out of the players. Yes, that’s a part of negotiating, but it should have been unnecessary in an industry as flush with billions as baseball. And what might it cost the owners in terms of goodwill with their fans? It was reported early Monday that MLB negotiators told players they would cancel the first month of the season if a deal was not reached posthaste. It was a gross threat meant to destroy the union’s resolve, and it was done with zero concern about fans who have a greater love for opening day than the people responsible for putting it on. Finally, what could it cost the Rays in terms of trust when it comes to a new stadium? The labor agreement and Tampa Bay’s ongoing stadium saga are not closely related, but it certainly makes you look at MLB’s strongarm tactics with their own employees and the obvious obfuscations regarding revenues, and wonder if those same policies don’t extend to dealing with local government leaders. This thing was always going to take some perspiration and heartache to get completed. The players had lost enough in the last few labor agreements that they were determined to do whatever possible to stop the trend of payrolls going the opposite direction of revenues. But it did not need to wipe out an entire offseason. It did not need to mess with the livelihood of the mom-and-pop businesses in Florida and Arizona that have come to depend on spring training visitors to boost their coffers for the year. Not to mention the tax rolls of the small towns that often foot the bill for massive spring training complexes. And it did not need to play with the emotions of the people who do nothing but treat their local team like family, agree to pay higher and higher prices every season and then get rewarded by having a commissioner speciously suggest owning a baseball team is a bad investment. I’m not trying to be the neighborhood scold. And I do not want to be melodramatic, particularly in a market that has struggled to adequately support a ridiculously successful on-field product. But the reality is teams are, collectively, bringing in billions of dollars a year more than they were just a short time ago, and yet they have spent the past three months fighting players over salary increases that, on the whole, are a drop in the bucket. Low-revenue teams that were selling for $150 million less than 20 years ago are now worth well in excess of $1 billion. TV networks never seem to run out of reasons to fork over bigger and bigger checks. And, yet, the whole time the owners were trying to browbeat the players into a deal, they were taking you for granted. Just like they did during labor battles in 1972 and 1981 and 1994-95. Fans might shout and whine and promise they will never give another dime to owners, but they always do. Why? Because they love this game. It is a link to their childhood. It is box scores in the morning and radio announcers in the evening. It is baseball cards, it is Little League, it is closing your eyes and picturing your father in his white t-shirt with a drink in his hand and a seemingly logical explanation for why Yaz is going to get a hit in this at-bat. So, I suppose, we should be thankful this morning. After doing nothing for months, then issuing artificial deadlines and heavy-handed threats, the lords of baseball finally began negotiating in good faith at the 11th hour on Monday. It should infuriate you but, in the end, it’s what you were praying for. Pitchers and catchers may be overdue, but hope has finally reported to spring training. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.