TAMPA — Kentucky coach John Calipari had just watched his Wildcats miss 18 of 20 shots from the 3-point arc — but still make a game of it in a 69-62 loss to Tennessee in the SEC tournament semifinals — when he went stumping for the league to place eight or nine conference teams in the NCAA Tournament field on Selection Sunday. From the Kentucky bluegrass, the Smokey Mountains, the Alabama plains, the Louisiana bayou and the Florida swamp, the SEC has long held football as religion and is regarded as that sport’s best league. But now it just may be the best basketball conference, and games like the Vols’ win over Kentucky buttressed that argument. “This thing here? When I said we should have nine teams? Look at it,” Calipari said. “Maybe I was right. Again. “Wait a minute. What about Florida? Texas A&M is killing everybody. Florida should’ve won that game. What does that mean about them. You know, this league … has done some good stuff and now let’s see what happens in the postseason. I’m hoping seven, maybe eight teams get in? And if that’s the case, the way you judge a league is what’s their record in the NCAA Tournament. If half your teams or three-quarters lose in the first half, maybe your league isn’t what everybody said. I have confidence in these teams.” The confidence — and defense — displayed by Tennessee (25-7) against the Wildcats lifted them into Sunday’s SEC final with their 11th win in 12 games. The Vols will play upstart Texas A&M, who beat Arkansas 82-64. Tennessee hasn’t won the conference tournament since 1979. Coach Rick Barnes’ team got 19 points from Kennedy Chandler and 11 points from Zakai Zeigler to hold off an improbable but furious comeback attempt by the air-balling Wildcats. Kentucky found its way back into the game and cut the Vols lead to 65-62 when TyTy Washington drew a foul and made a couple free throws with 1:31 remaining. But the Vols closed it out with Zeigler going to the foul line to knock down 3 of 4 free throws in the final seconds. Chandler also was clutch down the stretch, and Barnes made sure the ball went to him in crunch time. “I got my two back-to-back buckets and got us going, you know, got our energy back up and led to us getting a win and getting more stops after that,” Chandler said. Not only was Kentucky icy cold shooting the basketball — just 34.4 percent overall (22-of-64) — it didn’t help that the SEC’s Player of the Year, Oscar Tshiebwe, picked up his second foul with 11:32 remaining in the first half and only played eight minutes. He was held to three points in the first half but finished with 13 on 5-of-10 shooting. Calipari was upset more by mental mistakes than the poor shooting. After getting back into the game, the Wildcats allowed Chandler to score on an easy backdoor cut. “We had our chances. We didn’t shoot the ball particularly well today,” he said. “Some of that was us, some of that was Tennessee. “I’ll watch the tape because it’s just what we do. But this we knew would be a physical bump-and-grind game, and I thought we held our own. When we had it to six, there were three plays back-to-back-to-back. You can’t win national championships on plays like that. You cannot. Because a good team will make you pay just like Tennessee made us pay.” The Wildcats (26-7) had been penciled in as a No. 1 seed, especially if they won the SEC tournament. Now it appears they will fall a notch when the NCAA Tournament brackets are revealed. “We’re probably a two. Maybe a three,” Calipari said. “We’re not in the room. We’ll see. My guess is it will be a very hard path because it always is.” If Tennessee beats the Aggies, they’ve got an outside shot at a No. 1 seed. “I just think our league deserves so much more credit than it’s getting overall,” Barnes said. “... But it’s been a hard-fought regular season for all of us.”