Pinellas — Miko Miko is a 3-year-old male mixed breed dog. Even though he’s young, he obviously had a hard life. He has scars and marks all over his body that don’t happen accidentally. He also has a serious knee injury. Friends of Strays will cover the cost of surgery required to repair it. Despite his past, he loves people and dogs unconditionally. For more information, call Friends of Strays at 727-522-6566, or e-mail adoptions@friendsofstrays.org. Pasco — Working Cats The Pasco County Animal Services has a working cat program. These cats have lived with humans, but aren’t friendly enough to be indoor cats. They would do best in a barn, church, warehouse or other property with a rodent problem. Working cats are vaccinated, spayed or neutered and microchipped. All adoption fees will be waived. For more information, call Pasco County Animal Services at 813-929-1212. Hernando — Rocket Rocket is a male Terrier mix of unknown age. He was adopted and returned because he “muzzle punched” one of the owners cats. Otherwise, his former owner said he’s sweet, loves to be petted and walks well on a leash. He is very sensitive to medical treatment. As he has a skin condition due to allergies, shelter volunteers are working to make him more receptive to treatment. Rocket requires a patient owner with time to work with him. For more information, call Hernando County Animal Services at 352-796-5062. Manatee — Bella Bella is a 9-year-old female mixed breed dog. She loves walks and knows some basic commands. Bella loves her doggie pool and sits pretty for treats. Her former owner became ill and could no longer care for her. That was the saddest day of her life. If you’d like to give her a loving home, call Manatee County Animal Services at 941-742-5933. Hillsborough — Missy Missy is an 18-pound, 7-year-old female Lhasa Apso. As she is strongly bonded to her sister of the same age and breed, they need to be adopted together. They are sad, coping with the death of their former owner, and shouldn’t be separated. Both are house broken, crate trained and ride well in cars. They would do best in a childless, non-demanding environment. For more information, go to SecondChanceFriends.org.