Odd way to treat your people Horror in Ukraine as Mariupol holds out | March 22 I am not a head of state nor a military tactician nor a diplomat. Nevertheless, I do feel that I have some claim to common sense. For example,  if I claimed ownership of an area of the world that insisted that it was a sovereign nation, I do not think that I would try to destroy it. Why would I destroy that which I claimed was mine? Nor would I kill many of its residents, thereby causing the survivors and their descendants for generations to hate me. Why would I want my potential citizens to hate me? And why would I cause horrible economic conditions to exist among my own present citizens or cause the death of thousands of my own soldiers? Will they not react with hatred as well? Bruce LeBaron, St. Petersburg How would that work? Is a war crimes tribunal in Putin’s future? | Column, March 19 If the International Criminal Court were to charge Vladimir Putin with war crimes, how would authorities arrest him? What would be done if he resists? Before any of that, Russia would have to lose the war. Mortimer Brown, Lutz Free roofs aren’t free No fix for insurance crisis | March 16 I just received my homeowner’s insurance renewal for 2022 and was shocked to see the large increase, in spite of never having filed a claim in 30-plus years. These increases are primarily (but not totally) due to unethical roofing contractors who abuse the Assignment of Benefits process. They will often inspect your roof for free and tell you that your roof is damaged by wind or hail and that they can replace it for free if you just sign a form. But signing the AOB form allows the contractor to file a claim against your insurance company on your behalf, often at greatly inflated rates. We are all paying for those “free” roofs that people get, while some unethical roofing contractors and their army of lawyers line their pockets. When you hear the words “free roof,” you should be very skeptical, as few things in life are free. Somebody always pays for it. Brian Boyle, Tampa Thanks to Disney Disney, Desantis at odds | March 12 The CEO of Disney does not need the support of the governor, but the opposite might be true. Thank you, Disney world, for bringing all these tourists to our Sunshine State. Catherine Beredjick, Tampa