The $1.5 trillion federal budget bill recently passed by Congress includes millions of dollars in projects for Tampa Bay. Hometown legislators asked for, and got, money for high-speed internet in affordable housing communities, wastewater system upgrades, renovations for the Science Center of Pinellas County and more. President Joe Biden signed the bill earlier this week, which includes provisions to help the Ukrainian government. The spending plan revived the tradition of earmarks for the first time in a decade, allowing members to submit and fund pet projects in their communities. The practice was banned in 2011 after accusations of corruption and misuse. The new guidelines prohibit projects for for-profit companies and require the requests to be posted online with a financial disclosure certifying the member and member’s family would see no financial benefit. Both Democratic and Republican legislators from Tampa Bay submitted requests for projects in their districts. Here’s a rundown. U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, D-Tampa Castor secured more than $10 million through nine projects that focus on mental health care, education, cancer research and more. “I’m pleased to support three projects aimed directly at lifting up and connecting our diverse Tampa communities,” Castor said in a statement. “These initiatives will drive our economy, keep our neighbors plugged in, and modernize local infrastructure.” U.S. Rep. Gus Bilirakis, R-Palm Harbor Bilirakis brought in more than $13 million for 10 local projects that include money for wastewater treatment systems, workforce training and mental health services. “While I am no proponent of big government spending, I have a duty to ensure my community receives its fair share of allocated federal resources and to be transparent about my efforts to prioritize these important projects,” he said in a statement. U.S. Rep. Charlie Crist, D-St. Petersburg Crist’s projects brought in more than $11 million for nine projects, including those focused on body cameras, public transit, child health care and education. “The People’s House has once again delivered for Floridians,” Crist said in a statement. “Our historic, bipartisan funding bill tackles some of our biggest challenges at home and abroad, while also directly benefiting you — my neighbors in Pinellas.” U.S. Rep. Daniel Webster, R-Clermont, did not submit any community projects for funding. U.S. Rep. Vern Buchanan, R-Bradenton, did not immediately return a request for comment, and the one project submitted by U.S. Rep. Scott Franklin, R-Lakeland, was not funded.