PORT CHARLOTTE — Three games into the spring schedule, and the Rays have yet to put a pitcher on the mound who is on the team’s 40-man roster. It might be unusual, but it’s not surprising. The Red Sox threw Nathan Eovaldi against the Rays on Friday and the Twins used Dylan Bundy for two innings in Sunday’s 3-0 victory against Tampa Bay. But the Rays are not deviating from their safety-first philosophy no matter how quickly opening day is approaching on the calendar. So while the big-league team was hopping a bus for the ride to Fort Myers on Sunday morning, pitching coach Kyle Snyder stayed behind and watched Corey Kluber, J.P. Feyereisen and JT Chargois pitch batting practice in an empty stadium at Charlotte Sports Park. “I don’t care if we’re the 30th team in terms of how aggressive we are with these guys,” Snyder said. “That doesn’t matter. (This is) too important.” The Rays are still waiting to find out if Major League Baseball will allow teams to carry 28 players in April — theoretically, two extra pitchers — because of the abbreviated spring after the lockout. Extra pitchers would allow greater flexibility in terms of taking starters out of games earlier in the season due to the lack of preparation time in spring games. But, even if MLB decides against it, the Rays plan on building arm strength at a normal pace. “If they give us 15 pitchers, it’ll be a different scenario,” Snyder said. “That’s just me speaking, but I think it’s the responsible thing to do.” The Rays will begin sprinkling some of their 40-man roster pitchers into action in the next few days, but it will still be a case-by-case basis. Jalen Beeks, coming off Tommy John surgery in 2020, is expected to get the start Monday against Pittsburgh. Ryan Yarbrough will throw a simulated game Tuesday. Remember this name Colby White, who zipped through four minor-league levels in 2021, made his first appearance in a big-league spring game Sunday. White had some jitters and walked two batters, but escaped unscathed. It was a far cry from last spring when White was destined to start the season at Class A Charleston. He made it to High-A, Double-A and Triple-A and was being discussed as a potential darkhorse on Tampa Bay’s postseason roster in October. In his four minor-league stops, White had a combined ERA of 1.44 with 104 strikeouts in 62.1 innings. “It was unbelievable, honestly,” White said of 2021. “I never would have thought it would have ended that way. It was fun. I learned a ton, and that was the biggest thing.” Miscellany The Rays announced after Sunday’s game that right-hander Tyler Glasnow had undergone arthroscopic surgery on his right ankle Friday to remove loose particles. Glasnow, who had Tommy John surgery in August and likely will miss the entire season, is expected to be able to resume throwing in 2-3 weeks … The Rays signed corner infielder Ryon Healy to a minor-league deal. Healy, who hit 25 homers for Oakland in 2017 and 24 for Seattle in 2018, spent last year in the Korean baseball league where he hit .247 with seven homers in 249 at-bats … Luke Raley, acquired from the Dodgers on Friday, is expected in camp Monday. Manager Kevin Cash said Raley is a strong corner outfielder, but the Rays are interested in seeing how he looks at first base. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.