TAMPA — The Lightning already are nearly two-thirds into their regular season, but Nikita Kucherov is just getting going. The star forward missed nearly three months due to a lower-body injury, and Tuesday’s game against the Senators was just his 17th of the season. But there’s been no rust to his game. “He’s an elite player in this league,” forward Corey Perry said following Tampa Bay’s 5-2 win at Amalie Arena. “He can make plays, he can make passes. He can score. He is a superstar. He can step in at any point and pick up where he left off, and we’re happy to have him.” Coming off the high of their Stadium Series win Saturday in Nashville, the Lightning (35-11-6) started slowly, going down two goals within the game’s first four minutes. But they rallied with five straight scores to win their fifth straight game and reclaim first place in the Atlantic Division with 76 points. Kucherov started the comeback, putting the Lightning on the board by driving to the net from the left circle and faking a forehand wrister before poking a backhand inside the far post to beat goaltender Matt Murray 7:15 into the game. But it was Kucherov’s dazzling cross-ice pass on the power play to set up Steven Stamkos’ go-ahead goal — and eventual game-winner — in the second period that had everyone talking. It marked the fourth straight game in which Kucherov had a goal and an assist. He has multiple points in 11 of his 17 games this season. The Lightning’s outdoor debut at Nissan Stadium, played in front of a franchise-record 68,619 fans, had a unique playoff feel to it. So it was no surprise when they came out flat in their return to Amalie, even with a sellout crowd of 19,902. “We had just played in an event,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “To come back regardless of who we were playing, there was that potential to tip toe your way into the game, and we definitely did that. I liked our response, the guys dug their heels in.” But starting a stretch of 31 games in 60 days to close the regular season, the Lightning had no time to dwell on the past. After falling behind 2-0, the Lightning rebounded with goals from Kucherov and Brayden Point (who had four points on the night) to go into the first intermission tied at 2. A physical game boiled over in the second period when Lightning defenseman Erik Cernak and Senators captain Brady Tkachuk exchanged checks. After Cernak hit Tkachuk into the boards, Ottawa defenseman Josh Brown went after Cernak. But Pat Maroon jumped in to take on Brown, dropping his gloves for a fight as linemates Corey Perry and Pierre-Edouard Bellemare also found dancing partners. The Lightning capitalized on the ensuing power play, patiently passing the puck around until Kucherov could dissect the Senators’ penalty kill. Point rimmed a puck from behind the net to Kucherov, who took it off the wall while approaching the goal line and calmly sent a backhand pass through traffic to Stamkos for an open one-timer and a 3-2 lead. “We’ve seen him do it a few times in practice lately,” Point said of the pass. “That’s just an unreal skill, just to pick up the puck off the boards like that and find a guy right away. He’s just so talented. One of the most talented guys in the league. His skill is off the charts, and his vision is off the charts. That’s just a pass that not many guys make.” Perry and Mikhail Sergachev added insurance goals, giving the Lightning five different goal-scorers on the night. The Lightning have been down by two goals in three of their last six games but came back to win two of them. “It definitely didn’t start out great, but I guess that’s why you play 60 (minutes),” Point said. “I guess we get a lot of belief in our group. We never feel out of game. ... Every time you can see your team come back, it’s great to see. “We’ve been in those spots before and we’ve seen ourselves come back, so we do have that confidence. You never like to be down that that early. But we have enough confidence that we know there’s a lot of game left.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.