Truckers need help $4 gas is here. Facing down Putin is worth the price | Column, March 11 Our family relies on our one-driver owner-operator trucking business out of St. Petersburg. We struggled through the pandemic, and were forced to take a federal Small Business Administration loan to make it through and stay in business. With skyrocketing oil prices, diesel is at a record high, and the rates are not rising in tandem to offset this increase expense. For us and many other independent drivers, there is simply not enough profit to justify running our semi-truck, putting more wear and tear on it, and being away from home and family. When we started our small business in 2018, diesel was about $3.20 average. It is now nearing $6 in many states. Where is the relief? If nothing is done, there will be even fewer truck divers on the road whether by choice in protest or from being forced out of business. This is only going to put more strain on the supply chain issues. This issue needs to be addressed, whether by fuel tax holidays or another stimulus so that we can continue to haul goods around the country and locally. Christina Cranton, St. Petersburg Money for nothing Vote bill goes to DeSantis | March 10 It’s such a great use of taxpayers’ money to “create a first-of-its-kind office to investigate election crimes.” I just hope it has headquarters in The Villages. That seems to me to be the only real place we have voter fraud. Philip Spriggs, Largo Ground those jets Pentagon rejects NATO allies giving jets to Ukraine | March 10 Finally the current White House administration has done something correctly. President Joe Biden and his administration turned down the Polish offer of giving us their Soviet-era MiG jets, which we would then give it to Ukraine. This would have put us directly into the conflict. Rick Johnson, St. Petersburg Protesting ... something That ‘People’s Convoy’? Just driving around in circles | Column, March 10 I didn’t know if I should laugh or cry while reading Leonard Pitts’ column regarding the “people’s convoy” of vehicles who recently drove to Washington D.C. to protest ... something. In the midst of Europe’s worst invasion since World War II, and all the unmentionable possibilities that encompasses, some folks felt compelled to wage a protest against “mask mandates” or whatever. The timing of the protest makes it hard to imagine the appalling hubris of the drivers and their mindless driving around the nation’s capital. But this is the result of the arrogance of their leader, who never showed an ounce of empathy for anyone or anything. Perhaps the timing of their protest was not so surprising after all. William Falcone, Brandon Nice while it lasted Inflation up 7.9% in past year | March 11 What’s that sound I hear? It must be that 5.9 percent Social Security COLA gurgling down the drain in the face of even higher inflation. It had been the biggest cost-of-living adjustment in 39 years. Now it’s already been surpassed. Matthew Leonard, St. Petersburg