TALLAHASSEE — Prosecutors and public defenders in Florida will receive a pay increase of $5,000 on top of an inflation adjustment of just above 5 percent under the budget that state lawmakers are negotiating for the upcoming fiscal year. The proposed pay bumps come as South Florida prosecutors pressured state lawmakers for increases, saying they were woefully underpaid, leaving in droves and that shortages and turnover were “endangering public safety.” The pay raises are part of a more than $100 billion state budget that lawmakers are still negotiating. The Legislature still has to vote on the budget, and while lawmakers have agreed to them, Gov. Ron DeSantis still has veto power over the proposal. Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine Fernandez led the charge in the fight this legislative session. In February, she traveled to Tallahassee and told lawmakers that “shamefully low salaries” had contributed to her office losing some 80 prosecutors in the last year. “It’s a public safety crisis,” Palm Beach County State Attorney Dave Aronberg said at a news conference last week. “People want to be prosecutors. They just can’t afford it.” Without pay increases and amid rising costs of living, prosecutors and public defenders worried that they would not be able to compete with other major cities for the best young talent. After lawmakers agreed to the pay raises, Rundle shared the “good news” with her staff in an email Tuesday afternoon. “The Legislature has heard our call regarding increasing salaries for our (state attorney’s office) employees and assuming nothing changes, our employees are set to receive, what I believe may be, unprecedented salary increases!” Rundle wrote. Hillsborough State Attorney Andrew Warren welcomed the news Wednesday. “Public safety doesn’t happen by chance,” he said. “You have to invest in public safety.” Like other state attorney’s offices, Warren’s has dealt with higher than normal staff turnover in recent years, a problem he attributed to low pay and the lucrative potential of other legal jobs. First-year prosecutors in his office currently make a starting salary of $53,000 a year. They can sometimes make double or triple that amount in the private sector. The increase can help prosecutors’ offices remain competitive and help with retention, Warren said. “If you or your loved one is a victim of a crime, you want to make sure the prosecutor handling your case is a top-notch attorney,” Warren said. “That’s why it’s so important we’re investing in prosecutors.” Miami-Dade Public Defender Carlos J. Martinez also shared the news with his staff, and said the pay raises lawmakers plan to include in the budget are “historic.” “I’ve been with the office for almost 32 years and lobbying in Tallahassee for more than 25 years. Prior to this session, we had never achieved across the board raises at this level,” he said. Here is what those employees can expect in the budget that will go to Gov. Ron DeSantis’ desk for approval and would take effect July 1. In his email, Martinez vowed to work to further increase the salaries of support staff next fiscal year. Tampa Bay Times reporter Dan Sullivan contributed to this report. • • • Tampa Bay Times Florida Legislature coverage Sign up for our newsletter: Get Capitol Buzz, a special bonus edition of The Buzz with Emily L. Mahoney, each Saturday while the Legislature is meeting. Watch the Florida Legislature live: The Florida Channel, a public affairs programming service funded by the Legislature, livestreams coverage at thefloridachannel.org. Its video library also archives coverage for later viewing. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news from the state’s legislative session. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.