PORT CHARLOTTE — Shane McClanahan felt good as he made the rounds of available mounds the last few months, throwing bullpen sessions at Diesel Fitness, the University of Tampa and USF. But he knew something was missing. Ideally, he’d be doing his offseason work in front of Rays pitching coach Kyle Snyder, as he did he much of last year. If not, McClanahan at least would be quick to provide an update. “If I threw a good bullpen, the first person I want to text is Snydes: ‘Hey, man, felt great today, this was working, I’m working on this.’” But because the lockout rules did not allow engagement with any team staff, McClanahan and other Rays pitchers were operating somewhat blindly. For example, McClanahan said, he was unsure when to advance from playing catch to throwing or to start facing hitters, and he was unable to check in. “I would be like, ‘All right, who am I going to, oh, I can’t text that person,’” McClanahan said. “But it worked out in the end.” It did, illustrated by how happy the lefty starter was that the lockout was over, spring training was open, teammates were being hugged and Snyder was again at his side. “It’s great to be back,” McClanahan said Saturday at the Rays complex. “I’m excited for all the guys to get here and excited to see everybody.” Among the handful of early reporters, no one was more excited than outfielder Brett Phillips. And no one on this planet, or any other, may ever be. Asked what it felt like to walk into the complex after driving down from his Largo home, Phillips said words couldn’t suffice as he let out a guttural scream that lasted nearly five seconds and covered several octaves. “That’s excitement right there is what that is,” he explained. “Excited to be here in Port Charlotte, to see my teammates, to see my coaches, to see the front office and, most importantly, to finally see the fans. Holy cow, am I excited to see the fans.” A bigger crowd of Rays is expected Sunday when they go through physicals, with the full group pretty much on hand by Tuesday for their first full workout. For Rays manager Kevin Cash, the first two days since the players and owners agreed to a new labor contract have been exhilarating, as he was back in his element. Welcoming players with hugs and handshakes as they walked in, watching minor-league workouts on the backfields, talking baseball with whoever would listen. Even enjoying answering questions from reporters, though he would be loath to admit it publicly. Also, getting to put on his uniform pants and his standard Rays pullover. “I’m thrilled,” Cash said. “I had it on a couple times during the lockout just to make sure I wasn’t gaining weight. Walked around the house in it.” The uncertainty over when spring training would start created many questions, and with the agreement there are now some logistical issues for players and staff. Team travel director Chris Westmoreland has probably felt that more than anyone, as players are scrambling for flights, rental cars and short-term accommodations in what is definitely a seller’s market. (For this week, rooms at the upscale Wyvern Hotel in nearby Punta Gorda are averaging $500-plus a night, when available.) As Cash started checking in with players after the lockout was lifted, Tyler Glasnow, the right-hander rehabbing from Tommy John surgery and serving as the union player rep, had a serious question. “Glasnow asked if he could sleep at the ballpark because he can’t find any housing,” Cash said. The lockout was tough on players who were following from home, getting email and group text updates from Glasnow and/or checking on social media. “A lot of ups and downs,” centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier said. “I stayed optimistic this whole time. … But, just like a lot of people, there was a couple times where we thought something was going to get done and then things would just in the drop of hat take a turn for the worst, and there’s nothing done. “That happened a couple times. It was just a deflating feeling.” Phillips said he tried not to get too wrapped up in ebb and flow, knowing there were people “a lot smarter” handling the negotiations. But the gregarious and entertaining Seminole native was having a tough time handling being patient for a resolution. “I’m such a community-oriented guy,” he said, straight-faced, in stating the obvious. “I don’t know if you guys knew that or not, but I love talking with everyone and staying in touch and seeing how everyone’s doing. That’s just who I am. “It doesn’t matter if it’s my coach or (baseball operations president Erik) Neander, the front office guys. I’m friends with these guys, right? Regardless of whatever is to come in the future, I have developed friendships with everyone around me in the Rays organization. It’s tough not to talk to your friends. I’m just glad that we were able to come to an agreement.” Even better? “I’m just glad for everyone’s sake that we’re here today and can get baseball started.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.