TAMPA — When the Lightning were in a funk and Jon Cooper was trying to get his top scorers going, the coach’s line shuffling led him to putting Steven Stamkos, Brayden Point and Nikita Kucherov together. The three already shared the ice on the top power-play unit, which had struggled, but giving them more 5-on-5 time together seemed a plan worth pursuing, Cooper thought. The Lightning have won all three of their games since, including a 4-3 overtime win against the Hurricanes on Tuesday at Amalie Arena, a game in which all three players had multiple points. With 16 games left in the regular season, the win gave the Lightning a boost they needed. “You want your top players to be your top players,” Cooper said. “That’s how you win. That’s how we’ve won two (Stanley) Cups (in a row): Everybody played their role and the top guys put the puck in the net and we defended our way to a championship when we had to. And I expect no difference from us now.” Stamkos, Point and Kucherov did most of their damage Tuesday on the power play, but they had their most productive night 5-on-5, creating a team-high six high-danger scoring chances. No other line had more than three. Stamkos had three points on a power-play goal 52 seconds into overtime and two assists. Point, who had just two goals in his previous 11 games, had two points, an assist and the tying goal just over six minutes into the third period (a goal on which Stamkos earned the primary assist). Kucherov didn’t score — he has just one goal in his past 14 games — but he had three assists in his best game as a playmaker in weeks. “I think anytime you’re getting some points, I think it helps make you feel a little bit better,” Cooper said. “But how’s (Kucherov) playing away from the puck? I think his compete in that area, it’s getting better by the game. I thought he made some electrifying plays out there (Tuesday), but he was putting himself in position to do that. When you’re doing that, it’s how you’re playing away from the puck. So that’s really a good sign for him. “All these guys that are slowly coming out of whatever they consider their slumps or whatever it may be, it’s because they’re playing away from the puck. ‘Kuch’ is one of them, and it goes down the line.” Tuesday’s game was just the second this season in which Stamkos, Point and Kucherov had multiple points in the same game. The other was a 4-1 win at Seattle on March 16. Stamkos’ overtime goal was one of three man-advantage goals for the Lightning on Tuesday. On it, Stamkos fed Kucherov at the right circle, and Kucherov sent a touch pass back to Stamkos for an open shot from the slot. “I shouldn’t say I was completely surprised, but Kuch obviously is one of the best playmakers in the league,” Stamkos said. “So when he gets the puck in those situations, usually good things happen. He made some good plays on the power play. “In 5-on-5 (Tuesday), I thought he made some tremendous plays, too. It was nice to get out there with ‘Pointer’ and Kuch. They were making things happen.” Point and Kucherov have unusual synergy on the ice. But as the Lightning struggled — with just two wins in eight games before the current winning streak — Cooper pulled them apart in 5-on-5 situations, moving Stamkos up to the Point line in place of Kucherov. Three games ago, Point and Kucherov were reunited, and Ondrej Palat, who is in a 23-game goal drought, was dropped to the second line. “Obviously, two extremely good players,” Point said. “They see the ice really well. They can both skate. They can both rip the puck. ‘Stammer’ is so good, and Kuch is so good at finding quiet ice and getting pucks to you in good spots. It’s a real treat to play with those guys, and I really liked our game (Tuesday).” Though Stamkos — who has goals in three of his last four games after an eight-game drought — hasn’t played much with Kucherov and Point at even strength, he thought it would be just a matter of time before the three meshed. “You know things are going to happen,” Stamkos said. “They’re two totally different players in the pace that they play. Pointer is so dynamic with his speed, and Kuch is so dynamic with slowing things down. So you just try to read off them. I haven’t played with them a bunch this year, so the past couple games it’s been nice to feel them out a little bit and just stick with it.” NOTE: Cooper said Wednesday that he hoped that defenseman Ryan McDonagh, who has missed the past three games with an upper-body injury, would return within the next week. McDonagh has resumed skating and working on his conditioning. Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.