The University of South Florida is soon expected to announce its selection of a new president. While all signs point toward Rhea Law, a Tampa attorney who’s serving as interim boss, the challenges for the next leader remain universal. On the academic front, USF must further its ambitions to become a top-tier university. As an institute of higher learning, it must defend the rights of faculty and students to speak freely, and keep the university free of political manipulation. And as a public entity, USF must continue contributing to the public welfare far beyond the campus boundaries. These are varied and difficult tasks, but they cut to the very mission of higher education. On Friday, the university’s presidential search committee held public interviews for Law and a second finalist, Jeffrey W. Talley, the former chief and commanding general of the U.S. Army Reserve. Since Law, a consummate insider who formerly chaired USF’s board of trustees, applied for the job last month, virtually every candidate being vetted for consideration declined to formally apply. USF has not said when it plans to announce a selection, though officials hope to finalize the decision this month. Whomever is selected faces a number of the same challenges, from raising USF’s profile to strengthening the university’s role as an economic engine for Tampa Bay. Here are just a few issues that await the new president. Stand up for academic freedom. University presidents move between the academic and political spheres. They have to read the mood among Tallahassee lawmakers, who don’t always see the merits of academia, while supporting students and faculty in the pursuit of scholarship and free speech. Last year, the University of Florida barred three political science professors from testifying in a lawsuit over new restrictions to Florida’s voting laws. That attack on academic freedom triggered a flood of additional complaints, including faculty feeling pressured to destroy COVID-19 records and changing course materials to mollify some Republican lawmakers who object to teachings about structural racism in America. Experts in UF’s medical school feared they were being frozen out from offering public health advice in the early stages of the pandemic and feared that state funding for UF would be jeopardized if they contradicted the governor’s anti-mask policies. As the controversy played out, UF President Ken Fuchs spent too much time on the sidelines — or on the side of curtailing academic freedom — while his university tried to whitewash the complaints. A national backlash prompted the university to reverse course, but by then the damage to UF’s reputation was done. As we said last year, university leaders don’t inspire confidence in their commitment to academic freedom by not standing up to attacks. The next USF president should look hard at UF’s handling of that controversy to avoid putting USF through similar and unnecessary embarrassment. Develop regional workforce. USF graduates populate the local market, working across a range of industries to provide essential services, from caring for the sick to teaching school. But as a major employer and economic engine with a huge footprint across the region, USF also plays a leading role in Tampa Bay’s growth, influencing everything from housing patterns and commercial development to regional transportation planning. USF has joined forces with other leading institutions in north Tampa to improve the appeal and vitality of the university area, a key step toward arresting years of urban blight. As a driving force in the Tampa Bay Partnership, a regional business and public advocacy group, the university has helped Tampa Bay leaders identify and target key industries. And its medical school and other programs provide a backbone to attract talent and outside investment. USF needs to continue having an impact far beyond the university campus, both to help local industries as they adapt to compete, and as area governments increasingly confront costly, complex challenges, such as the dangers to a growing metro area from a warming climate. Foster inclusive decision-making. After taking office, Law ended the university’s surprise solicitation of proposals to develop the USF Forest Preserve, a 769-acre tract just north of the Tampa campus. The preserve, which includes the USF golf course, has long served as an environmental resource and an outdoor classroom for USF researchers and students. Aside from protecting critical habitat, Law’s decision showed sensitivity to the outrage the proposal sparked, and an appreciation for moving quickly and decisively on a better course of action. That willingness to listen was on display again last month after a series of messages led to confusion over the fate of USF’s sign language program. The university distanced itself from an email announcing the program would be closing after the news led to blowback on social media and an online petition that received more than 13,000 signatures from people across the world. In both cases, the university was reminded of the need to protect its mission and assets. And it learned that listening from the outset was a better public relations strategy. Provide talent to community. Aside from preparing the next generation of artists, scientists and engineers, USF has a vaulted history in improving this region and state, standing not as an ivory tower but a conduit for addressing real-word problems. USF’s marine scientists were among the first on-scene after the 2010 BP offshore oil drilling disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, and their research over the years has been key to understanding the impacts to marine life and contributing to the gulf’s long-term sustainability. USF researchers have helped find the lost remains of Floridians who suffered bitterly throughout the state’s history, from the boys buried at a former Panhandle reform school legendary for its abuse to those entombed in the lost African-American cemeteries across Tampa Bay. And USF was instrumental in serving and educating the public as the pandemic evolved, helping governments and residents make more informed decisions and deploying staff, students and resources to bolster the area’s beleaguered safety net. These are only a few recent examples of how USF has mobilized for the broad, public good, which should remain a priority of the incoming president. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.