The Lightning have set a high bar for themselves. It’s a byproduct of being the last team standing at the end of the past two seasons, the one parading around the ice with the Stanley Cup over its head, and making a run at a third. But when the Lightning suffered back-to-back regulation losses for the first time in 57 games this season with Thursday’s 4-1 setback to the surging Flames at the Saddledome in Calgary, they did their best to fight the feeling that the sky is falling. “Teams go through that stuff,” Lightning captain Steven Stamkos said. “It’s 50-whatever games into the season, and this is the first time we’ve lost back-to-back games, right? So that’s pretty good. It’s going to happen. Teams go through tough stretches all the time. We’re going through a little bit of a bump right now. We’ll correct it. But it’s process over outcome, at this point, and (Thursday), it was a start.” The frustration from the loss wasn’t the same as after recent games in which the Lightning questioned their compete level. Yes, they started slowly — falling behind for the sixth time in their past seven games and seventh in 11 — but they found their footing, skated well and created more than their share of offensive opportunities. But the loss really came down to the final minute of the second period, when the Lightning gave up two quick goals after tying the game less than four minutes earlier. “It was an even game for 39 minutes,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “And one team hurt themselves, and the other team didn’t. That’s what happened.” After the Lightning evened the score at 1 on Alex Killorn’s goal with 4:20 remaining in the second period, the Flames quickly reclaimed the lead on Johnny Gaudreau’s second of three goals with a minute left in the period. Following defenseman Zach Bogosian’s turnover in the Lightning zone, Gaudreau scored from behind the goal line, flicking a second-chance puck off goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy’s back and into the net. Moments after Vasilevskiy made a save on Mikael Backlund’s shot from the low slot, the Lightning weren’t able to get control of the puck, leading to a longer shift for the usually reliable “School Bus” line. Calgary maintained possession, and Backlund beat Pierre-Edouard Bellemare to the net front and redirected Erik Gudbranson’s shot on net into the goal with eight seconds left in the period. “You never want to give up a goal, let alone two, in the last minute of a period,” Lightning forward Corey Perry said. “It’s just little mistakes here and there, and it’s costing us right now. Teams are capitalizing on those, and that was the ballgame (Thursday).” Gaudreau completed his hat trick in the third period, left alone below the left dot for an open wrister on a behind-the-net feed from Elias Lindholm with 6:16 left in to play. The Lightning (37-14-6) seemed to be gaining momentum in the second period, especially after an opening period in which they fell behind on Gaudreau’s first goal and struggled to get the puck into the offensive zone during a four-minute power play. Tampa Bay created plenty of scoring opportunities in the second, getting off 25 shot attempts, but missed on seven and had five blocked. “It’s not all about creating,” Cooper said. “We should have been content going to the room 1-1 (at the second intermission) and then trying to impose our will in a 1-1 game. Instead, we go to the room down 3-1, and now you’re putting yourself in a position to have to score yourself out of the game again. “That’s not our recipe. It’s not it’s not a winning recipe. You have to defend your way to win hockey games, and they did and we didn’t (Thursday) from that last minute in the second.” Midway through their six-game road trip from Chicago through Western Canada and Seattle, the Lightning find themselves in their toughest stretch of the season, playing 11 games in 11 different cities. But they’re aware of the high bar they’ve set for themselves and know that success starts with eliminating the defensive lapses that have plagued their past several games. “We’ve talked about a bunch of things in the room, starting in our own zone and moving forward from there,” Perry said. “It’s progress. It’s baby steps throughout a season. These are tough stretches. You’re (around) Game 60 of the season, and every team goes through it and we’ll go through it now, and we’ll dig ourselves out of it.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.