History’s lessons NATO cites rising Russian troop toll | March 24 Russian President Vladimir Putin should have boned up on his history before invading the Ukraine — specifically, the Winter War of 1939. Josef Stalin’s troops invaded Finland, planning to conquer the country in a couple of weeks. Thanks to woefully untrained and unprepared troops, a purged general staff, a bitterly cold winter and dedicated, well-prepared Finnish troops defending their turf the Russians wound up taking about 10 percent of Finnish territory at a terrible cost — hundreds of thousands of casualties. As one Russian general said, “We conquered just enough land to bury our dead.” Pete Wilford, Holiday A teachable moment A job well done Among other seniors, I walk daily at Citrus Park mall. Today we had the pleasure of sharing the space with about 100 children from Essrig Elementary on a scavenger hunt with their teachers and chaperones. They appeared to be having such a good time, and it was evident that the adults were, too. What a production it must have been, but the teachers had it all under control. There are a lot of moving parts with an activity such as this, and all of them were addressed. Our teachers are such an asset to the community, they deserve a shout-out for a job well done. Lane McAlister, Tampa What’s the point? War enters second month | March 25 If according to President Joe Biden, sanctions are never a deterrent, to what purpose are we bothering to sanction Russia over invading Ukraine? John A. Haugen, Gulfport Focus on cybersecurity Tampa Bay cybersecurity firms on alert as Russia-Ukraine fight raises threat | March 1 I was pleased to read Jay Cridlin’s article calling attention to the fact that now is the time to prioritize cybersecurity. With the bay area’s emerging tech industry and being home to MacDill Air Force Base, we must ensure that our elected leaders prioritize smart policies to make sure the U.S. does not fall behind China and Russia who are likewise working to bolster their own tech sectors. This is especially important right now, as the war on Ukraine escalates and the U.S. doubles down on its stance. Experts are warning Americans about the threat of Russian cyber-attacks while they continue to move forward in their invasion of Ukraine. The stakes cannot be overstated, nor can the urgent need for U.S. lawmakers to get it right. As one of the top states for overall defense spending, Florida must take every opportunity to invest in technological innovation now and in the future. Knowing that Florida’s defense capabilities, economy and tech industry go hand-in-hand to foster greater success and security, leaders must act now to prioritize our technology innovation. If we prioritize this crucial matter now, we can solidify a stronger, safer foundation for success and mitigate the risk of falling behind other international tech players. Sal Nuzzo, Tallahassee