The Lightning knew their current stretch of hockey would be some of their most important games of the season. Playing 31 games in 60 days after returning from Nashville’s Stadium Series at the end of February isn’t an easy task, and the team was reminded how quickly mistakes could add up in Tuesday’s 7-4 loss at Winnipeg. “Costly mistakes hurt us,” left wing Pat Maroon said. Almost as quickly as the team’s game came together in the first period did it fall apart in the second. The Lightning (37-13-6) got off to another slow start, resulting in a two-goal deficit — both scored on rebounds. But goals from Alex Killorn and Victor Hedman tied the score at 3-all. With 3:59 remaining in the opening period, Killorn sent a shot from low in the slot past Winnipeg’s Connor Hellebuyck (20 saves) to bring the team within one. Less than a minute and a half later, Hedman fired a shot from the top of the slot. Both teams were held scoreless in the second period, but on the ice, it looked like the momentum was on Winnipeg’s side with its efficiency in the offensive zone; the Jets (25-22-10) outshot Tampa Bay 11-4. To make matters worse, the Lightning took two late-period penalties, which included a 30-second 5-on-3 Jets advantage. The Jets pulled ahead every time the Lightning caught up. Not once did Tampa Bay hold the lead, and the team’s mistakes were made all the more evident about halfway through the third. With 13:07 remaining in the game, Winnipeg’s Pierre-Luc Dubois drew a hooking penalty from Hedman and scored on the ensuing power-play opportunity for the go-ahead goal. Andrei Vasilevskiy’s reaction — slamming his stick on the goal post and breaking it — said it all about the team’s swelling frustration. The agitation didn’t end there. Almost one minute later, Mathieu Joseph drew his own hooking penalty. And instead of the Lightning evening up the score on the ensuing man-advantage opportunity, Winnipeg continued to add insurance. On the power play, Hedman worked the puck through the neutral zone. As he passed center ice, he sent the puck behind toward Nikita Kucherov, who lost his footing and the puck. Kyle Connor, the last Winnipeg player in the zone, quickly chased it down and took advantage, sending the puck past Vasilevskiy (26 saves) on a backhanded breakaway shot for a two-goal lead. The Lightning didn’t place any blame on their All-Star goaltender. “Vasy’s been unbelievable for us,” Maroon said. “He can make seven, eight saves, but eventually the ninth and 10th ones are going to go in. And they’re grade As. … They’re in the slot and he has to make a big save or someone’s in the slot and gets a second rebound, a second opportunity and he can only make so many saves before eventually they’re going to go in.” Added Ryan McDonagh, who scored the team’s first goal of the night: “If you look at pretty much every one of their goals tonight, 2 or 3 feet right in front of Vasy … we’ve got to play from the inside out there and not allow guys to get sticks on pucks and second opportunities. … We paid the price tonight.” The Lightning are in the midst of their longest road trip of the season (six games). And their lackluster performance won’t cut it with an upcoming contest at Calgary (34-15-7) on Thursday and games against Edmonton, Vancouver and Seattle following on the back end of the trip. The loss to Winnipeg snapped a four-game win streak on the road dating back to Feb. 11′s win at Arizona. “We have to find a way to compete, settle in here, relax, take a deep breath,” Maroon said, “and find a way here.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.