WESLEY CHAPEL — A scoreless first period seemed like a feeling-out process for the Boston Pride and Buffalo Beauts as they opened play in the Isobel Cup professional women’s hockey playoffs Friday at AdventHealth Center Ice. But a three-goal second lifted the third-seeded Pride to a 6-0 victory over the No. 6 Beauts in the preliminary round of the Premier Hockey Federation’s postseason tournament. “That’s the way we know we can play,” said Pride captain Jillian Dempsey. “I think every line was firing and all the D pairs were making great, crisp passes, and (goaltender Katie Burt) played unbelievable back there. We were feeding off the energy on the bench and making the little plays on the ice, and it obviously worked out great for us.” The Pride advanced to Sunday’s semifinals, where they will play the second-seeded Toronto Six, who received a preliminary-round bye. The Beauts’ offense hummed in the first period, as they put 11 shots on goal to Boston’s five. But Burt, who finished with 32 saves, kept the puck out of the net. The tide shifted in the second, as the Pride’s offense came to life, scoring on three of its 22 shots in the period. Forward Taylor Wenczkowski opened the scoring with an off-angle shot that tricked goaltender Carly Jackson (30 saves) midway through the period. Defender Kali Flanagan scored her first goal of the season on the power play — a surprise, since the Pride had the least successful power play (6 percent) in the league this season. Wenczkowski added a goal 33 seconds later to put Boston ahead 3-0. Christina Putigna (on the power play) and Teresa Vanisova scored in the third to extend the Pride’s lead to 5-0 with still more than seven minutes remaining. Mary Parker closed the scoring with 2:23 to play. Penalties hurt the Beauts’ chances throughout the game, especially a slashing penalty against forward Claudia Kepler in the offensive zone, which led to Putigna’s goal. Boston coach Paul Mara said his team will be ready for Toronto on Sunday. “We saw them two weeks ago, so we know what to expect,” said Mara, a former NHL defenseman who was a first-round draft choice of the Lightning in 1997 and played 101 games with Tampa Bay from 1998-2001. “We’re confident in ourselves, and we’re a confident team. And we’ll work through a few things (at practice Saturday) to improve and go from there.” Whitecaps outpace Riveters An early goal helped the fifth-seeded Minnesota Whitecaps set the tone for a 4-1 victory over the No. 4 Metropolitan Riveters in the other preliminary-round game. The Riveters, from Monmouth Junction, N.J., couldn’t keep up with the fast-paced Whitecaps. “I think our team absolutely dominated (Friday),” said Whitecaps goaltender Amanda Leveille, who made 32 saves. “We controlled the puck from start to finish, and I think that really helped carry our team the whole way.” The Whitecaps will meet the top-seeded Connecticut Whale in the semifinal round. Minnesota defender Taylor Turnquist opened the scoring against Metropolitan goaltender Brooke Wolejko (29 saves) less than eight minutes into the game. Audra Morrison and Jonna Curtis each finished with a game-high three points, all assists. The Whitecaps added to their lead as defender Sydney Baldwin scored just under seven minutes into the second period. The Riveters cut their deficit in half less than two minutes later, when forward Kelly Babstock fired a shot past Leveille, who returned Friday from an undisclosed injury to play for the first time since Feb. 5 against Buffalo. But a goalie-interference penalty against defender Rachael Ade put Metropolitan in a tough position, and Baldwin’s second goal of the night 18 seconds into the ensuing power play restored Minnesota’s two-goal lead. Allie Thunstrom’s empty-net goal off a feed from Haley Mack in the third period sealed the Whitecaps’ win. Penalties were an issue for the Riveters, who gave Minnesota five power-play opportunities, including twice in the final five minutes of play. “We got outplayed,” said Riveters captain Madison Packer. “Minnesota played better, they outworked us for a big majority of the game. We had some chances we couldn’t capitalize on. We just couldn’t get the bounces (Friday). But I don’t think they’re a better team overall, but they played better than us (Friday). They deserved to win the game.” Up next Sunday’s semifinals No. 1 Connecticut Whale vs. No. 5 Minnesota Whitecaps, 1 p.m. No. 2 Toronto Six vs. No. 3 Boston Pride, 4:30 p.m. Watch: ESPN+ Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.