PORT CHARLOTTE — The size works. The speed and strength, too. The Triple-A numbers are intriguing and the anecdotal reports from people in Los Angeles are encouraging. Combine all of that and the Rays are willing to overlook the small issue of Luke Raley’s poor rookie season in the majors in 2021. This is what the Rays do. It’s easy to pick up a set of baseball cards and identify the players with All-Star-caliber stats, or look at the scouting reports and identify the can’t-miss prospects. It’s a little more complicated when you’re shopping around the fringes trying to identify players whose numbers or reputation aren’t so obvious, but who still have the potential to be useful assets. Which explains why baseball operations president Erik Neander and general manager Peter Bendix were willing to sacrifice a Double-A pitcher to acquire Raley from the Dodgers late last week. “He’s shown power and we’re not going to judge or get sidetracked off a 75-80 at-bat performance in the big leagues,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “That’s the one thing Erik and Pete do well — there are many things they do well — but they pride themselves on not getting too overhyped about early performance, success or not having success.” And so the Rays made a deal for a player who doesn’t necessarily fit on their big-league roster — at least the way it’s currently configured — but could figure into future conversations if circumstances change. Raley is a lefthanded-hitting corner outfielder who might also get a shot at adding first base to his repertoire. Of course, Tampa Bay already has more accomplished players like that in the outfield (Austin Meadows) and at first base (Ji-Man Choi), which means Raley is currently an insurance policy against trades or injuries. Raley understands this. And, at age 27, he’s in no position to complain about it. And, considering the collection of high-priced stars in Los Angeles, he’s in a better position today than he was a week ago. All he is looking for is an opportunity to get more consistent at-bats against major-league pitching after shuttling between Triple-A Oklahoma City and L.A. eight times in 2021. “I definitely struggled at the big-league level, it was an adjustment,” Raley said. “It was a lot of pinch-hitting that you really don’t get to practice for. So a lot of times it was facing a nasty bullpen arm in the seventh inning and it was like getting thrown to the wolves. But that’s what guys are there for. There are guys that come off the bench and are great pinch hitters. I just felt like I didn’t execute well in that role. “When I did get some starts over there I felt like I played okay, not great. It’s just nice to have that under your belt and know what to expect when you’re up there.” A seventh-round pick out of a Division II school (Lake Erie College in Ohio) in 2016, Raley has always vacillated between coveted and expendable. Last week’s trade was the third time he had been dealt in less than four years. That’s the kind of thing that happens when your career numbers at Triple-A include a .297 batting average and a .937 OPS while, conversely, you’ve hit .182 in the big leagues with 25 strikeouts and only two walks. The challenge for Raley, and Tampa Bay’s coaching staff, is to cut down on the propensity to swing-and-miss without sacrificing his power potential. Raley made contact on 66.4 percent of his swings in 2021, which is about 10 percent below the league median. “He’s strong, he’s fast, he has power, and I think those things combine in a way that’s pretty unique, positive,” Bendix said. “He’s somebody we’ve been after a couple of different times in his career. “He’s had success in Triple-A, and it hasn’t translated over to the big leagues, but we think he has all the ingredients. He’s a good defender in the outfield, he’s spent some time at first base, he hits for power. So you see the tools, the physicality. He’s a really good person. All these things, you can never have too many guys like that.” John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.