Slow starts have plagued the Lightning for weeks now, but it hasn’t hurt them in the win-loss column. Still, they know the trend can’t continue if they hope to win a third straight Stanley Cup championship. “This has been going on for a little while now, especially probably since the outdoor game,” head coach Jon Cooper said, “but teams have basically just let us off the hook or our goalie’s bailed us out.” Sloppy puck possession, lack of communication, clumsy breakouts, turnovers and defensive breakdowns haven’t made things easy for goaltenders Brian Elliott and Andrei Vasilevskiy. The latest example was Tuesday’s 7-4 loss at Winnipeg, where Tampa Bay fell behind by two goals in the first period and spent the rest of the night trying to catch up to the Jets. “We’ve got to find a way to get out of it,” veteran forward Pat Maroon said. “It’s not the coaches. It’s on the players now. We’ve got to find a way to grind our way out of this mess that we keep putting ourselves in in the first 10 minutes of every game.” The Lightning have allowed the opposing team to score the opening goal in five of the past six games and 10 of the past 15. Opponents have outscored Tampa Bay 20-15 in the first period over those 15 games. But the Lightning won 10 of those games, so they aren’t about to tear up the blueprint and change the way they play. “Are the starts concerning? There’s no question,” Cooper said. “But, hitting the panic button with this team? Not a chance.” With 26 games remaining in the regular season, the Lightning sit second in the Atlantic Division, three points behind the Panthers and two ahead of the third-place Maple Leafs. But they don’t play for regular-season titles, and they recognize that if they don’t fix their bad habits soon, their postseason stay could be a short one. “We’re in a really good spot,” Maroon said. “We’re going through a little hiccup right now, but we’ve got to find a way to nip it in the butt right now or it’s going to continue right into the playoffs, and you don’t want that to happen going into the playoffs. You want your ‘A’ game right before playoffs start.” The Lightning need to adopt the mentality that the playoffs start now, Maroon said. “Every team we’re playing down the stretch is trying to make the playoffs, and they’re going to give us their best every single night,” he said. “We’ve got to prepare like we’re not in the playoffs.” A third of the way through their longest road trip of the season, games Thursday at Calgary, Saturday at Edmonton, Sunday at Vancouver and Wednesday at Seattle will test the team further. The Lightning dealt with all sorts of adversity during their back-to-back championship seasons — injuries, COVID protocols and postseason bubbles, among them. Given that they’re likely to face it again in the playoffs, Cooper said it’s never a bad thing for a team to hit a rough patch during the regular season — though fans and media might not see it that way. Still, he understands that the team needs to elevate its game soon, before it becomes too late. “We come into a lot of games with a bullseye on our back, and we’ve for the most part, for a long time, answered the bell,” Cooper said. “No question, we’re in a funk right now. And everybody’s going to have to dig a little deeper and pull yourself out of it.” The good news is the Lightning are playing with a healthy lineup for one of the few times since the start of the season. Defenseman Zach Bogosian returned Tuesday after missing 15 games with a lower-body injury. There’s no better time for the team to get back to playing “Tampa Bay Lightning hockey,” Maroon said. “We’ve got to find a way here,” Maroon said. “It starts in Calgary, which is a very, very good hockey team. If we’re not on our toes, they’re going to take it right to us.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.