DUNEDIN —The pandemic didn’t scare Joseph Kokolakis. In April 2020, as the pandemic was shutting down the world, the president of Kokolakis Contracting still applied to build an apartment, retail and hotel project in the east end of downtown. With its downtown core one of the most vibrant in Tampa Bay, the city still is trying to make the eastern edge, known as the Gateway, more walkable and lively. The city bought 4.3 vacant acres between Skinner Boulevard, Milwaukee Avenue and Main Street in 2004, but plans fell through for decades, leaving it an empty puzzle piece in the otherwise bustling downtown. Then the development agreement reached between Kokolakis and the city in December 2020 for 81 apartments, a 79-unit boutique hotel and 17,000 square feet of retail space and a food hall brought new momentum. It now just might have to wait a little longer. As he was preparing for a June groundbreaking, Kokolakis sought to add nine more apartments while keeping the same square footage of the building by reducing the size of a few two- and three-bedroom units. Late last year, he bought two parcels bordering the site, adding 0.39 acres to the overall footprint. He calls the change “non-material” because the height, width and style of the apartment structure will remain. But when it comes to city code, just about any tweak to a development agreement is grounds for having to start the approval process over from scratch. Kokolakis’ changes must go back before a hearing of the Local Planning Agency and two meetings of the City Commission, likely blowing the June 2022 deadline to begin construction in the original development agreement. On March 10, the City Commission directed City Manager Jennifer Bramley to restart negotiations with Kokolakis. Before the revised development agreement can be added to the hearing agendas, Bramley and Kokolakis must negotiate terms regarding a new deadline to break ground, his payment of another $5,000 development fee and other details. Since the project first was proposed, the $30 million cost estimate has increased 20 percent due to inflation during the pandemic, Kokolakis said, making it even more critical to get through any amendments quickly. “I don’t want to see this drag on,” Mayor Julie Ward Bujalski said at the meeting. “I want to see bulldozers in the ground.” Kokolakis has lived in Dunedin since 1989, so he said the Gateway project is personal. His office walls are covered with images of dozens of buildings his firm has constructed, like projects at Tampa International Airport, MacDill Air Force Base and United States Military Academy at West Point. But about 15 years ago, he began work in his hometown, renovating four storefronts on Main Street known as the Commons and bringing in Strachan’s Ice Cream & Desserts to anchor the stretch. He went on to redevelop Stirling Commons on Broadway, bringing in bars and restaurants with an exhibition gallery for artists on the second floor. His firm built the high-end Victoria Place apartments and retail on Main Street and the Artisan Apartments on Douglas Avenue. He said he had interest from chain retailers, but he wanted to land local tenants at those projects like grocery Nature’s Food Patch and family-owned shops and bars. “A large part of what we’ve done there is create an environment where our kids would want to come back to to live,” said Kokolakis, who has three adult children with his wife. He saw an opportunity for the Gateway after the city’s agreement with another developer for the site fell through. The development agreement reached in December 2020 included $359,000 of incentives for Kokolakis, justified by city officials by $228,000 annually that the project is expected to bring to the tax rolls per year for the next decade. He bought the former developer’s three parcels on the site and later the city’s three parcels, taking ownership of all 4.3 acres. Late last year Kokolakis bought a vacant lot and a parcel that includes Soggy Bottom Brewery on the east side of the site, bringing the total footprint to 4.65 acres. The additional land will allow more space for service vehicles for the project’s hotel, while not disturbing the brewery. He said this additional acreage would entitle him to build up to 92 apartment units per acre but that he is seeking only 90 units so as not to change the building height, size or style from the original development agreement. The project’s 79-room Edin Hotel is slated to have 3,000 square feet of meeting space, plus a restaurant and bar with outdoor seating. The proposed 90 luxury apartments will include one-, two- and three-bedroom units, with rents ranging from $2,000 to $5,000 a month, according to Santek Management real estate broker Will Kochenour III. The Artisan House Apartments will include a 3,000-square-foot restaurant with outdoor seating and 12,000 square feet for micro restaurants and retail fronting a large promenade along Main Street. Kokolakis will  preserve open space on the western edge of the project as a small public park. “The goal is to create a walkable downtown core that extends from the Gateway all the way to the Marina” to the west, Kokolakis said.  