LARGO — Count Kevin Hendrick in. The Pinellas County school district’s popular chief academic officer has been among the most mentioned names to replace retiring superintendent Mike Grego. And Hendrick didn’t hesitate to apply. His was among the first four packets to arrive after the School Board officially advertised the job. “I’ve known about Dr. Grego’s retirement for several months. I’ve had plenty of time to put together an application,” Hendrick said. “I want to be clear that I am interested. I’m a viable candidate.” Hendrick, 45, is a 1994 Largo High School graduate, having moved to Pinellas County from Philadelphia at age 9. He has degrees from the University of South Florida and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, taught at Dunedin and Pinellas Park high schools, and served as principal at Northeast High for nine years. He’s worked in the district office for the past five years, dealing with high profile issues including remote learning during the pandemic, expanding diversity through the culturally relevant teaching program and reviewing challenged books and other instructional material. “I’ve been well-prepared for that,” Hendrick said. Other initial candidates for the position were Barbara Hagerty, associate director of technology innovation at Stockton University in New Jersey; Jeffrey DeLeon, a Trinity International University professor; and Adam Taylor, an education consultant who most recently served as superintendent of Rutland City schools in Vermont. School Board members have said they want to hire someone who can continue the district’s progress without interruption. They have not committed to picking an internal candidate, saying the best person will rise to the top of the pool through a thorough review. The board is accepting applications through midnight April 13. It has scheduled an April 20 work session to cull the list for interviews. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.