The Rays will spend most of the spring close to their Port Charlotte home. To reduce travel and related logistics during the abbreviated prep time for the season, Major League Baseball drafted a new exhibition schedule that has teams mostly playing within geographic groupings based on their spring sites. The Rays start their 19-game exhibition schedule March 18 at the Red Sox, and play their home opener the next day against the Braves. Overall, they will play nine games in Port Charlotte, three in nearby North Port (Braves), four in Fort Myers (Red Sox, Twins) and one each in Sarasota (Orioles) and Bradenton (Pirates). They close the spring facing the Phillies at Tropicana Field on April 6, two days before the delayed April 8 season opener at home against the Orioles. Game times have not been announced, and the schedule is subject to change. There is also the possibility that some of the early games will be shortened to six or seven innings, and minor-league players will be used at times. Under the original 32-game spring schedule, the Rays made two long trips to Dunedin (Jays) and Lakeland (Tigers), and one to Tampa (Yankees) and Clearwater (Phillies). Tickets to games on the new schedule will go on sale 10 a.m. Tuesday via raysbaseball.com/spring and through the Ballpark app. The team said those who bought single-game and season tickets based on the original schedule will be notified by email of their options. MLB is expected to release the revised regular-season schedule next week, with new dates for the Rays’ original opening three-game series at Boston and Toronto. One is expected to be made up on off-days and/or with doubleheaders, the other tacked on to the end of the season. Familiar face Catcher Joe Hudson, a Tampa native and Jesuit High product, signed a minor-league deal with an invite to major-league camp. Hudson, 30, has played in the majors for the Angels, Cardinals and Mariners, albeit briefly, with just 18 games total. Hudson, who spent last season with the Pirates at Triple-A, seems likely headed to Triple-A Durham. Right-hander Seth Blair, who spent last season in the Red Sox system, also signed a minor-league deal with a camp invite. Catcher David Rodriguez, who was in the Rays organization from 2013-19, returned on a straight minor-league deal. Pitching in High on the Rays’ camp-opening to-do list is to get a read on the status and availability of a half-dozen injured pitchers. They could only get updates relayed through private physical therapists during the lockout. Initial reports are good on four relievers expected to be ready at or near the start of the season: Jalen Beeks, Colin Poche, Jeffrey Springs and Ryan Thompson. Also working their way back on more extended timetables are Nick Anderson, Yonny Chirinos and Tyler Glasnow. A big step Triple-A Durham pitcher Tyler Zombro on Thursday took a “big step” in his remarkable comeback, throwing to hitters for the first time since the horrifying June incident when he was struck in the head by a line drive that fractured his skull. “To get a hitter back in the box … a lot of that visual of having somebody in there knowing a batted ball outcome is about to happen, I think (Thursday) was probably the biggest milestone,” Zombro said. “So it’s actually going to feel really natural to get back into game scenarios. So I’m really excited for that.” Zombro also was touched by the big crowd of teammates who watched his live batting practice session, then shared a hug or a fist bump in congratulations. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.