PORT CHARLOTTE — Given the calendar and — according to owners — a deadlock in negotiations, Major League Baseball on Tuesday is expected to cancel a second week of regular-season games, with the potential for more to follow. But minor-league teams soon will be playing games, and the Rays have released their schedule for 15 days of exhibitions starting March 16 in Port Charlotte. All games will be free and open to fans. On most days, two of the Rays’ four full-season teams will play at home, with two on the road. Most games will start at 1 p.m. on the backfields of the Charlotte Sports Park complex (where there is limited bleacher seating). The 6:30 p.m. starts the final four days will be in the stadium. In addition to the first three weeks of exhibition games, MLB has canceled the first two series of the regular season, which for the Rays were at Boston and Toronto. Canceling two more series would wipe out the Rays’ April 8 home opener — which was likely to be their only sellout of the month — and a combined seven games against Baltimore and Oakland. Players and owners remain millions of dollars apart on several issues, but Yankees president Randy Levine implied in a radio interview that they are not enough to lose a whole season over. “I don’t even want to think about that. I couldn’t think about that,” Levine told ESPN New York. “That’s a mind-boggling, horrid, horrid thought. Shame on all of us if that ever gets to that. Shame on all of us.” Setting thresholds for the Competitive Balance Tax may be the most challenging issue. The Yankees and some other big-market teams would be aligned with the union in wanting higher thresholds so they can spend more without being penalized. Smaller-market teams, such as the Rays, logically would want lower thresholds so teams that spend excessively are penalized as a form of maintaining competitive balance. (The Athletic reported last week the Angels, Diamondbacks, Reds and Tigers were opposed to the owners going to even $220 million in the first year; the union is seeking $238 million. Any deal needs approval from 23 of the 30 teams.) “The owners are pretty united. There is no divide right now. There’s disagreements,” Levine said. “Everyone on our side needs to understand they have to compromise in order to get some and negotiate. Nobody’s ever said anything with the thresholds there’s not going to be any movement.” Rays’ minor-league exhibitions All games 1 p.m. unless otherwise noted March 16 vs. Pittsburgh (Bradenton): Bowling Green, Charleston home; Durham, Montgomery at Pirate City March 17 vs. Boston (Fort Myers): BG, Charleston home; Durham, Montgomery at JetBlue Park complex March 18 vs. Minnesota (Fort Myers): Durham, Montgomery home; BG, Charleston at Lee County Sports Complex March 19 vs. Atlanta (North Port): Durham, Montgomery home; BG, Charleston at CoolToday Park complex March 20: Off March 21 vs. Minnesota (Fort Myers): BG, Charleston home; Durham, Montgomery at Lee County Sports Complex March 22 vs. Atlanta (North Port): BG, Charleston home; Montgomery at CoolToday Park complex March 23 vs. Baltimore (Sarasota): Montgomery home; BG, Charleston at Twin Lakes Park March 24 vs. Atlanta (North Port): BG, Charleston home; ; Durham, Montgomery at CoolToday Park complex March 25 vs. Boston (Fort Myers): BG, Charleston home; Durham, Montgomery at JetBlue Park complex March 26 vs. Atlanta (North Port): BG, Charleston home; ; Durham, Montgomery at CoolToday Park complex March 27: Camp Day March 28: vs. Baltimore (Sarasota): BG, Charleston home; ; Durham, Montgomery at Twin Lakes Park March 29 vs. Boston (Fort Myers): BG (3 p.m.), Durham (6:30) home; Charleston (3), Montgomery (6:30) at JetBlue Park complex March 30 vs. Atlanta (North Port): Charleston (3 p.m.), Montgomery (6:30) home; BG (3), Durham (6:30) at CoolToday Park complex March 31 vs. Atlanta (North Port): Durham (3 p.m.), BG (6:30) home; Montgomery (3), Charleston (6:30) at CoolToday Park complex April 1 vs Atlanta (North Port): Montgomery (3 p.m.), Charleston (6:30) home; BG (6:30) at CoolToday Park complex Roster assignments are subject to change; other team sites may have different rules regarding fan access. Pitching in Three Rays minor-league pitchers returning from major medical issues are off to good starts in camp, pitching coordinator Jorge Moncada said. • Tyler Zombro, who had surgery to repair a skull fracture after being hit by a line drive in June, has thrown two bullpen sessions and will throw to hitters in a live batting practice session this weekend. • Dalton Moats, who broke two bones in his right leg fielding a bunt in July, has already thrown to hitters and “is good to go,” Moncada said. • David Hess, who had a cancerous germ cell tumor in his chest treated with chemotherapy in October, is playing catch and will be built up to start throwing bullpen sessions. First for first Right-hander Nick Bitsko, the Rays’ first-round pick in the 2020 draft, is on track to finally pitch in his first pro game. Bitsko signed for $3 million shortly after the draft, but the 2020 minor-league season was canceled and he missed all of 2021 due to shoulder issues that led to labrum repair surgery. Bitsko, 19, will throw a bullpen session Tuesday and throw to hitters for the first time on Friday, with the expectation he will head to Class A Charleston at some point. “We would like to get him in (extended spring) games in April here before he goes out, but he’s about to face batters and he’s excited about it,” Moncada said. “He’s coming along.” Bitsko has taken well to some adjustments the Rays made to his arm action after analyzing his body movement in their indoor pitching lab. “He’s looking good,” Moncada said. “He’s on a really good path right now, trending in the right direction so far.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.