After talks between baseball’s owners and players broke off bitterly and without an agreement Tuesday afternoon, commissioner Rob Manfred canceled the first two series of the regular season, with the potential for an extended delay before play resumes. Owners originally set a Monday deadline for a deal but agreed, after both sides felt there was progress in the marathon negotiating session that lasted until 2:30 Tuesday morning, to continue talks until 5 p.m. That still wasn’t enough time and raised the question if any amount would have been enough. Talks ended with the players rejecting what the owners said was their final offer and with some obvious animus. Owners claimed the players changed their tone on Tuesday, and the union said the owners had been falsely portraying that the sides were close to a deal Monday in order to shift blame. There was no set date to resume negotiations, as union officials headed to their homes after eight days of talks in Jupiter. Manfred said his side is ready to resume talks as soon as possible. In a statement, the union said, “players and fans around the world who love baseball are disgusted, but sadly not surprised.” Owners had threatened to cancel regular-season games if there was no deal, and Manfred made that official minutes after the 5 p.m. deadline, saying the decision was based on the calendar to have a proper spring training ahead of the scheduled March 31 opening day. The Rays were to begin the season with series at AL East foes Boston and Toronto. Next is to see how many additional regular-season games are canceled. The owners have said the games won’t be made up and players won’t get paid or receive service time for them. Whenever the sides start talking again, the union may try to convince owners to restore some or all of the missed games, as well as pay and service time. “We worked hard to avoid an outcome that’s bad for our fans, bad for our players, and bad for our clubs,” Manfred said. “I want to assure our fans that our failure to reach an agreement was not due to a lack of effort by either party.” The owners and players reconvened at Roger Dean Stadium around 10 a.m. Tuesday amid optimism a settlement was within reach. But after several afternoon meetings, the remaining issues — both financial and philosophical — proved to be too much to agree on. The key unresolved items were reported to be minimum salaries, the amount of the bonus pool for pre-arbitration players and thresholds for the Competitive Balance Tax (CBT). The owners’ final offer was for a $700,000 minimum salary with $10,000 annual increases, a $30 million bonus pool for pre-arbitration players and maintaining the current CBT thresholds ranging from $220 million-$230 million. The players’ most recent proposal was for a $725,000 minimum salary with $20,000 annual raises, an $85 million pool with $5 million annual increases and an increase in the CBT thresholds starting at $238 million and climbing to $263 million in the fifth year. Manfred defended what he said was the owners’ “best offer” prior to the deadline, which also included expanding the playoff field from 10 to 12 teams, adding the designated hitter to the National League, implementing a draft lottery among teams with the worst records, eliminating draft pick compensation for free-agent signings and expanding the amateur draft to include international players. Specifically, he noted the importance of the CBT as “the only mechanism in our agreement that protects some semblance of a level playing field among the clubs.” The differences were obvious in other ways. Around 3 p.m., a spokesman for the owners told media at the stadium that players had changed their tone and, given the remaining gaps, owners soon would make their final offer. “We thought there was a path to a deal (Monday) night and that both sides were closing in on the major issues,” the spokesman said, per ESPN. “The MLBPA had a decidedly different tone (Tuesday) and made proposals inconsistent with the prior discussions.” The union, which held a 2½-hour conference call with player reps Tuesday morning, responded by saying its position had not changed from the previous day. Its spokesman said the owners were incorrectly portraying optimism for a deal being clos, calling it “ridiculous” they did so. Giants pitcher Alex Wood was even more direct in a tweet. “FWIW MLB has pumped to the media last night & today that there’s momentum toward a deal. Now saying the players tone has changed. So if a deal isn’t done today it’s our fault. This isn’t a coincidence. We’ve had the same tone all along. We just want a fair deal/to play ball.” Canceling games impacts both sides financially, as players don’t get paid and teams don’t get most of their revenues until regular-season games are played. Players overall would lose about $23.5 million in salary for each game canceled; owners would miss out on millions in the sales of tickets, concessions, parking and merchandise. But both sides indicated they have prepared for the losses, at least initially. The union has been withholding licensing money and is using that stockpile to offer players financial stipends, $5,000 for February and March and $15,000 in April, in addition to plans to open and staff training facilities for players in Florida and Arizona. Owners, meanwhile, don’t risk losing the bulk of their television revenue unless about 20 games are lost (dropping the inventory of games to their networks below the required 140-142) and know that besides opening day April is typically one of their worst months for attendance. “From the perspective of the commissioner’s office and the clubs, we are doing our very, very best to try to reach an agreement,” Manfred said. “Unfortunately, it’s not something that’s solely within our control. It takes two parties to reach an agreement, and we will continue to be committed to that process.” Union officials were slated to address the media Tuesday night. That it took this long to make a deal already has had a major impact on spring training in cities across Florida and Arizona, as camps didn’t open as scheduled in mid-February and the first 11 days of exhibition games, through March 7, have been canceled. The Rays, through Tuesday, would have played 12 games, including six at their spring home in Port Charlotte. They are scheduled to open the season March 31 at Boston, with their home opener April 8 vs. Baltimore.   • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.