Update, 11:40: Centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier was scratched from the lineup for what the Rays said was left groin soreness. Prospect Josh Lowe, who is angling for a spot on the team, replaced him. Kiermaier was a limited participant the first week of camp due to neck and upper back tightness. Developing: Two weeks from today, the Rays will open the season at Tropicana Field against the Orioles. They have a run-through today, with a 1:05 p.m. exhibition at Charlotte Sports Park. Lefty Josh Fleming will be on the mound, likely working two innings as he is targeted for a multi-inning role this season. Ryan Thompson, whose 2021 season was cut short by injury, is among the relievers slated for action. Yandy Diaz will start at first base, as he is expected to split time this season at the two corner infield spots. Also Friday: • There will be a moment of silence before the game to honor Jean Ramirez, the bullpen catcher who died by suicide in January. His parents, Toni and Carlos, are expected to be in attendance. All Rays starters will wear Ramirez’s No. 98. • Lefty Cody Reed, who signed a minor-league deal, “highly likely” won’t pitch in spring training games as his velocity needs to be improved, manager Kevin Cash said. “He’s healthy, he’s fine, but the velo has not come back yet,” Cash said. “Give him a lot of credit for staying at it. We’re going to put him more on a strength build-up program and see if we can get that velocity back and closer to the guy that we saw at the spring training last year.” • The first cuts of spring are likely after Sunday’s game, as the Rays have their lone off day on Monday. • Cash threw batting practice on the field and hit fungoes for the first time this spring, having recovered from forearm surgery he underwent late last season. Here is the Rays’ lineup: And for the Orioles: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.