TAMPA — There could be a remake of Hillsborough County’s attempt at partnering with a private film studio, but not without a rewritten script. Wednesday, Hillsborough commissioners officially panned its debut by rejecting proposals from two private companies seeking public money to operate new studios. The county had asked for those private sector proposals last summer following a county-funded study that said the region could support a 60,000-square-foot studio. At the time, the county said it had $2 million available to help offset capital construction costs of a studio. Bluewater Media of Clearwater and Tampa-based Kestum Bilt submitted proposals, but neither met the county’s intent, purchasing director Scott Stromer said Wednesday. Bluewater proposed to move its 36,000-square-foot studio and agency headquarters from Clearwater to Hillsborough, potentially to the space formerly occupied by the Museum of Science and Industry on Fowler Avenue. Kestum Bilt formed a new partnership with the existing studio of 211 Meridian Holdings for its pitch, which included a training component to school people for careers in the film and video production industry. “After drilling through the applicants, we just didn’t feel like there was enough meat on the bones from those looking” to partner with the county, Tyler Martinolich, Hillsborough film commissioner, said in an interview. “There were some certainly good ideas amongst those that applied, but collectively we just didn’t feel like we were getting the biggest bang for the public dollar.” Rather than seek new proposals in the same format, the county said it would pursue a different track. It instructed Film Tampa Bay and the county’s economic development department to create a production studio incentive program. It would tie financial incentives from the county to private-sector performance goals like creating new jobs. That program would still need final approval from commissioners before it becomes effective. Times staff writer Paul Guzzo contributed to this report.