If you are looking for dinner and a show, Busch Gardens has announced the concert series coming for its Food & Wine Festival, which runs weekends starting March 11. Sean Paul, 3 Doors Down, Clint Black, Kansas, Air Supply, Gente De Zona and more — nearly two dozen acts named so far — will perform free concerts for those in the park that day. An extra charge of $44.99-$54.99 gets you VIP seating. The Food & Wine Festival runs Fridays through Sundays March 11-May 22 and is included with admission to the park, though you have to pay extra for the food and beverages scattered in kiosks throughout the park. A 10-sample lanyard starts at $65, good for food and samples of wine or cocktails. New this year are savory bites like Hawaiian BBQ pork with coconut jasmine rice and Flamin’ Hot Cheetos elote street corn. Signature cocktails include the Iron Gwazi Fizz, named after the newly opened roller coaster, and frozen watermelon margaritas. There will be a selection of more than 40 wines and beers, and nonalcoholic beverages such as the new Gwazi snow cones with flavors like black raspberry and cotton candy. There are still some spots in the concert lineup that have yet to be named, and there are tribute acts to the Beatles, Eagles and Fleetwood Mac on the schedule. The rest range in genres from pop to Latin music to country and classic rock. To view the full menu, concert lineup and other event details, go to buschgardens.com/tampa/events/food-and-wine-festival. Most concerts are 7 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays and 6 p.m. Sundays at the stage and park located near Iron Gwazi. The lineup is: March 11: Sean Paul, the prolific rapper and singer from Jamaica, kicks off the concert series. March 12: American Authors, a platinum-selling pop-rock trio. March 13: Boyce Avenue, a Florida-based band popular for its strong acoustic roots. March 26: Scott Stapp, Grammy-winning voice of the rock band Creed, is now a solo artist. March 27: The Purple Xperience will perform at 3, 5 and 7 p.m. The five-piece tribute group hails from Prince’s birthplace of Minneapolis, Minn. April 2: Rodney Atkins, country singer and songwriter, is best known for hits such as Honesty (Write Me a List) and Farmer’s Daughter. April 3: Air Supply, with the trademark sound of Russell Hitchcock’s soaring tenor voice and Graham Russell’s simple compositions of classic love songs, created classics such as Lost in Love, Making Love Out of Nothing at All and Every Woman in the World. April 10: Rolling Stone once called award-winning country singer-songwriter Chris Janson a “live legacy in the making” with hits Buy Me a Boat, Good Vibes and Drunk Girl. April 16: The tribute band Fleetwood Max will play shows at 3, 5 and 7 p.m. with songs from the Rumours album in 1977 to current touring set lists. April 17: Hotel California, an Eagles tribute band, will play at 3, 5 and 7 p.m. April 23: Iconic classic rock band Kansas has had a legendary career spanning nearly five decades. April 24: Clint Black surged to superstardom in 1989, reaching No. 1 with five consecutive singles from his triple-platinum debut, Killin’ Time. He followed that with a string of platinum and gold albums throughout the ‘90s. April 30: 3 Doors Down, the Grammy-nominated multi-platinum Mississippi rock band. May 1: Fab Four: The Ultimate Tribute is an Emmy-winning Beatles tribute band respected for its attention to detail. They will perform at 3, 5 and 7 p.m. May 6: Latin Explosion: Selena, Santana and Estefan Tribute. This tribute to some of the greatest Latin singers will be at 3, 5 and 7 p.m. May 7: Jenny and the Mexicats, a multicultural band that blends elements of flamenco, jazz, folk and cumbia, with lyrics in both English and Spanish. May 15: Gente de Zona, a Cuban reggaeton duo, performs. May 22: Tito Nieves, one of the world’s most prominent salsa singers, closes out the concert series.