The job description for the University of South Florida’s eighth president went on for 26 paragraphs. The search committee wanted a problem solver who could get along with anyone, build a team and manage a complex urban university — a “visionary” with a “humble leadership style,” high energy, a commitment to diversity and deep knowledge of education finances, among many other traits. On Tuesday, USF’s board of trustees decided the candidate who best fits that description is interim president Rhea Law, a USF alumna who nurtured ties to the university as she rose to be a high-profile lawyer in Tampa. After a series of town hall appearances on Monday followed by interviews Tuesday morning, the trustees chose Law over Jeffrey Talley, a former chief of the U.S. Army Reserve whose resume included a number of academic posts and jobs in the business world. Mike Griffin, who chaired the search committee, nominated Law to take the position. Several trustees seconded. “Rhea Law knows USF through and through,” Griffin said. “Just like USF, Rhea is scrappy. She works hard. A lot of folks have counted her out, they count us out, but to their own peril.” Lauran Monbarren, another trustee, said the past seven months made Law the clear option. “When you have a Seabiscuit running in the derby, you don’t stop that horse,” she said. Law’s nomination is subject to approval next week by the Board of Governors, which oversees the State University System. “Some people may wonder why I’m doing this at this point in my life,” said Law, 72, in her interview with the board. “This has been the honor of my life.” She wore an olive dress for the occasion, with a gold “USF” pin near her left shoulder. Law was appointed to the interim post by board of trustees chairperson Will Weatherford after president Steve Currall stepped down last July. She was touted through the selection process for her deep ties in the community and a willingness to cultivate relationships with legislators and other state leaders. Since stepping into the role, Law has overseen development of a new new strategic plan, stepped up planning for an on-campus stadium, ended a controversial proposal to explore development of the USF Forest Preserve on Fletcher Avenue, and created new advisory committees. She also has been praised for her communication style. During Monday’s town hall meetings on USF’s three campuses — and again before the board on Tuesday — she spoke of the challenges ahead in creating a culture where students, faculty and staff feel valued. She also discussed the need to solve budget issues and fill key leadership positions. To round out its top administrative ranks, USF is looking to hire a provost, a regional chancellor in St. Petersburg, a vice president for research and a vice president for diversity, equity and inclusion. This is a developing story and will be updated.            