LUTZ — One of the Tampa Bay area’s most famous cinematic homes is for sale. The house at 1774 Tinsmith Circle, on the Pasco County side of Lutz, is where Johnny Depp’s Edward Scissorhands character stayed with the Boggs family in director Tim Burton’s 1990 movie Edward Scissorhands. In September 2020, Joey and Sharon Licalzi purchased the home for $230,000. They lived there, but also turned it into a museum dedicated to the fairytale movie. They allowed fans inside for free. Now, the house is back on the market for $699,900. It is 1,432 square feet and has three bedrooms, two bathrooms and a two-car garage, according to the real estate listing. The Pasco County Property Appraiser’s website says the house was built in 1989. “My daughter is having twins,” Joey Licalzi said. “We need more space. I wish we didn’t have to sell.” Licalzi has a connection to the movie. He worked at a nearby Denny’s in 1990 when a producer stopped by with an offer. The movie’s craft services department needed a kitchen at which to wash dishes and a dishwasher. He volunteered for the job. That’s why he wanted the house when it was for sale in 2020. He and his wife landscaped the yard so it looked as it did in the movie. Fans and former crew members donated props — both authentic and reproduced — plus other items connected to the film. Last year, the movie’s prop master donated an original script, an autographed photograph of Burton, a crew schedule, photographs of the construction team building the castle at the end of the cul-de-sac where the museum is located, the prototype for the paper dolls that Edward Scissorhands creates in a scene and a photograph of the full crew who worked in the Lutz neighborhood. The collectibles will remain with the house, Licalzi said, and he hopes to find for an owner who will allow fans to continue to visit. Or, he suggested, move those items to a second location that serves as a movie museum and restore the Edward Scissorhands home’s interior to look exactly as it did in the film. He is willing to help fundraise for such a venture. “One thing I will not do,” he said. “I will not sell it to anyone who would destroy the house.”