BRANDON — Lightning coach Jon Cooper doesn’t like to make comparisons. So, when he phoned the team’s two main trade acquisitions, forwards Brandon Hagel and Nick Paul, to welcome them, he tried to ease their minds, telling them to bring the same games to Tampa Bay that had made them attractive trade targets. “It’s hard, because the players, they look at what they’re trained for,” Cooper said Monday. “They know that they’re going to a team that’s got a chance to make the playoffs and a team that’s won a couple (Stanley) Cups in the past. “I just don’t want players to put that expectation on them that they have to come here and solve all our problems and save the world. They don’t have to do that. Just go be the player you were with the previous team you were at and that’s fine with us, because that’s why we went out and got you.” Still, by acquiring Hagel on Friday and Paul on Sunday, the Lightning hope they have regained some of the grit they lost when physical forwards Blake Coleman and Barclay Goodrow, trade-deadline acquisitions in 2020, departed last offseason. Paul (6 feet 3, 224 pounds), who is expected to make his Lightning debut tonight in Carolina, said he can’t wait to fill that role. “For what they’ve done the last couple of years here and going for our third Cup, it’s definitely exciting to go in there and go for a push and bring my game to that line,” Paul, acquired from the Senators, said Monday during a layover in Toronto. “I feel like being a hard-nosed player, throwing big checks, playing good defensively and just kind of doing what I can to help the team succeed, I’m beyond ecstatic.” With forward Mathieu Joseph, part of the price for Paul, on his way to Ottawa, defenseman Cal Foote filled the empty forward spot alongside Hagel, acquired from the Blackhawks, and center Ross Colton at Monday’s practice. That’s likely where Paul will start with the Lightning, giving them the makings of a hard-checking line reminiscent of the former third line of Coleman, Goodrow and Yanni Gourde, lost in last year’s expansion draft. In addition to being quality forecheckers, Hagel and Paul can help on special teams, particularly the penalty kill. During Monday’s practice, Hagel (5 feet 11, 174 pounds) filled Joseph’s spot, working alongside Pierre-Edouard Bellemare. Hagel and Paul have the versatility to play center or wing, and Paul provides an additional faceoff option, which is especially important in the defensive zone. The Lightning believe the acquisitions will better prepare them for the postseason, when games are tighter and lower scoring, with less space and more hitting. “We got bigger; we got stronger,” Cooper said. “Come playoff time, if you get there, it has become a big-man’s game, and we had opportunities to get these guys. We identified what we feel we needed to make a run.” Despite some similarities in the games of Hagel and Paul and their predecessors, Cooper shied away from comparisons. “Neither of these two guys play like ‘Goodie’ or Coleman,” Cooper said. “They’ve got some attributes of them, but they’re just not them. But do these guys give us something that we feel we need? Yeah.” The Lightning continued to look for ways to improve in the final hours leading up to Monday’s 3 p.m. deadline and made an 11th-hour deal, reacquiring center Riley Nash from the Coyotes. Since Nash cleared waivers, he was assigned to AHL Syracuse. He will serve as a depth piece or join the Lightning for the playoffs when there is no salary cap. In pulling off the trades for Hagel and Paul, the Lightning had no cap space, so they opted to move roster pieces. Apart from Joseph, rookie forwards Taylor Raddysh and Boris Katchouk went to Chicago, along with draft picks. Ottawa also retained 44.5 percent of Paul’s remaining salary for this season to make that deal work. Paul can be an unrestricted free agent this summer. Given their cap restraints and that no player on their roster can be sent to the minors without clearing waivers, the Lightning’s current 21-man roster is the one they will have for the remainder of the season, barring a long-term injury. NOTE: Former Mitchell High standout Nathan Smith, the highest NHL draft pick to graduate from a Tampa Bay area high school, had his rights sent from Winnipeg to Arizona. Smith, who is playing at Minnesota State and represented the United States at the Olympics this year, was a third-round pick of the Jets in 2018. Winnipeg moved him due to signability concerns, Canada’s TSN network reported. Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.