Deshaun Watson changed his mind. The Browns have their franchise quarterback, one with some extra-heavy baggage. Despite sexual misconduct allegations made by nearly two dozen women against Watson while he was with Houston, Cleveland will make him its starting quarterback, the face of its organization and the highest-paid player in the NFL. Watson decided to waive his no-trade clause and accept a trade to Cleveland after previously rejecting the Browns. The Texans on Friday announced the agreement with the Browns, one of four teams to actively court Watson this week. Watson will receive a five-year, $230 million guaranteed contract, reports said, setting a record for the highest guarantee given to an NFL player, ESPN said. Watson gets a $45 million signing bonus. His base salary this season is $1 million, so any suspension for violating the league’s personal conduct policy, if there is a suspension, would cost him juts $55,555 per game lost, the NFL Network reported. Watson, who didn’t play last season for the Texans, had informed the Browns on Thursday that they were out of the running for him. However, he had a change of heart and called them Friday, reports said, a day after reports said he would take the weekend to decide on where he wanted to go. The Browns are paying a hefty draft-pick price for Watson, 26, also sending the Texans three first-rounders, a third-rounder and a fourth-rounder. Cleveland will also get back a fifth-rounder from Houston. Texans general manager Nick Caserio said the move was right for the organization. “Our priority right now is adding talented players to the foundation we have already put in place over the last 15 months, and this trade supports that plan,” he said. The Browns hadn’t announced the deal. Watson posted a photo on Instagram of him wearing a No. 4 Browns jersey and flexing. He wrote: “Cleveland, LETSSSS GOOOO!! #DawgPound Ready To Work!” Watson, a three-time Pro Bowl player, became a target of the Browns after a grand jury declined to indict him on sexual misconduct claims made by 22 women. He is still dealing with civil lawsuits from the women, massage therapists who accused him of assault and harassment. He’s also facing a likely suspension by the NFL for violating the personal conduct policy. His arrival in Cleveland will likely be met with a backlash by some fans, but the Browns are comfortable with his character after doing their own investigation. The Browns’ public pursuit of Watson angered incumbent starter Baker Mayfield, who has requested a trade. The team turned down Mayfield’s request before learning that Watson had agreed to waive his no-trade clause for them. Mayfield will likely be dealt in the next few days. The Browns will have to deal with tough questions about why they’re bringing on Watson despite his off-field issues. As part of their presentation to him in Houston this week, they reportedly outlined a plan to help his image. Watson had originally demanded the Texans trade him after the 2020 season before the sexual misconduct accusations. ––– More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP–NFL