For as odd, awkward, unprecedented and whatever else this condensed spring training is going to be, Rays manager Kevin Cash is already finding comfort and confidence in something very familiar: the positive attitude of their players. “It’s going to be quite the push,” Cash said Friday as he headed to Port Charlotte, where camp opens this weekend. “There will be a lot of moving parts going on. We’re going to have to show a lot of adjustability, which we feel we’re good at. “As far as talking to the guys (Thursday) night and into today, whether it was on the phone or text or WhatsApp, I felt like we picked up right where we left off. And that just speaks to the quality and character of our club, that we’re so fortunate to have just good guys, and everybody was excited to get going. The feedback was super positive. “Now it’s kind of a mad dash to get to Port Charlotte and get going.” A couple pitchers, Tyler Glasnow and Shane McClanahan, showed up to throw Friday. They soon will be joined by more teammates, though a wet and windy forecast for Saturday is expected to limit outdoor activities. Sunday is the mandatory report date, but Cash said the Rays will be patient and understanding that it may take some, especially those with families and/or are coming from other countries, extra time. Plus, the Rays plan to use the first couple days just to get a read on what players are ready for. Though exhibitions start March 18 under a revised regional schedule, players from minor-league camp can step in where needed. “Come Sunday-Monday, it’s going to be a lot of assessing where guys are at,” Cash said. “They’re very responsible. I trust that they’ve done a lot of good work in ramping themselves up accordingly. Most of them have kind of been there, done that. But we’ll assess with our own eyes, first-hand, and make those decisions on how quickly we ramp up.” As much as there is going to be a rushed feel to camp, with just 26 days from Sunday until the delayed April 8 opening day (rather than the originally scheduled 44), Cash said they will stress not hurrying. “We’re going to make sure that we have a long view and recognize that spring training is not meant to be a sprint,” Cash said. “Just because it’s shorter, it’s not going to be a sprint this time.” Pitching, as is standard operating procedure for the Rays, will be the priority. “That doesn’t change,” Cash said. “Our pitching drives everything. As concerned as we are coming in at a normal spring, at a normal pace and normal communication throughout the offseason, it’s just that much more magnified. “Pitching is what drives this industry, and we’re going to do everything we can to get a good assessment of it and see which course of action is best. So far, all of our reports and conversations — whether it’s with me, with (pitching coach) Kyle (Snyder), with (bullpen coach) Stan (Boroski), with all of our training staff — we’ve heard good things. So that’s encouraging.” There will be some similarities to the July 2020 camp, as teams rushed to get ready in three weeks for the pandemic-delayed season, and there may be some benefit from that experience. “We’re going to find out,” Cash said. “We had a round of practice at it, and whatever mishaps that took place …. I’d like to think that experience will help.” But there are differences. Until the 99-day lockout ended Thursday night, team officials weren’t allowed to have any communication with players on the 40-man roster. In 2020, the staff had a good read on what kind of shape the players were in after spring training was suspended in mid-March. “We had the pulse on everybody,” Cash said. “We knew what they were doing. We were able to talk to them.” On the plus side, all players and staff will be at the same site in Port Charlotte, not split between there and Tropicana Field. An added element to the spring’s oddness will be the trades, free-agent signings, arbitration haggling and other sensitive business going on that is normally mostly done by the time camps open. The Rays, for example, are expected to at least discuss trades for two outfielders, Kevin Kiermaier and Austin Meadows, who have played prominent roles. Plus, they are looking to add a right-handed bat and potentially more pitching, which could cost others already in camp a job. The Rays got a sense of how disruptive big deals made during the spring can be in 2018, when they shipped out veterans Corey Dickerson, Jake Odorizzi and Steven Souza Jr. Their goodbyes played out publicly, and teammates criticized the moves. That experience could prompt baseball operations president Erik Neander and general manager Peter Bendix to act quickly if they can. “No doubt, 2018 was a very tough spring training because we traded some people that had contributed so much,” Cash said. “None of us know how this free agency or these trades are going to work in the upcoming days. We know that all teams are busting it to try to make their major-league club and their depth as good as possible. “But we’ve had enough practice at it. If something presents itself, we trust that Erik and Pete are going to really do their best to help us, and also convey the best messages to our players internally and the players that potentially will be coming in.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.