Severe storms just after sunrise Saturday will bring strong winds and the coldest weather snap Tampa Bay has seen in weeks. Strong, gusty storms are expected in the Tampa Bay area Saturday morning. Storms will most likely begin hitting about 7 a.m. Saturday and last until about noon, Tony Hurt of the National Weather Service in Ruskin said Friday. The severe weather will be followed by a brief cold snap, but temperatures will warm by Sunday afternoon. Events from bay to bay have been canceled or postponed for the anticipated strong weather. The storm will bring at least some thunder and lightning, Hurt said, and possibly a few small tornadoes. The primary risk from these storms will be damaging winds. Wind gusts could reach up to 50 mph. Most likely, sustained winds will be about 15 to 30 mph, Bay News 9 Chief Meteorologist Mike Clay said. There is a gale warning in effect for the offshore waters in the Gulf of Mexico and a small craft advisory for Tampa Bay, Clay said. Though it will be the first day of spring break for kids across the six public school systems in the Tampa Bay area, it’s best to stay away from the beaches on Saturday, Clay said. “There’s a high risk of rip currents on the beaches, and there’s also going to be some very high surf,” Clay said. Cold weather from the north is making its way down to Tampa Bay, where the warmer weather will clash with the frigid air, causing the severe weather. The city of Tampa’s River O’ Green St. Patrick’s Day celebration has been postponed a day to Sunday and the inaugural Shamrock Fest at the St. Pete Pier was canceled because of the anticipated rough weather. High temperatures will be in the mid 70s Saturday morning, but the temperature will plunge beginning in the afternoon. Overnight Saturday into Sunday temperatures could sink into the 40s and some areas could even bottom out in the high 30s. Pinellas County can expect to see temperatures in the upper 30s to around 45 degrees closer to the water. In Pasco County, temperatures could drop to the upper 30s, Clay said. This will likely be one of the last cold weather snaps of the year, Hurt said, as the Tampa Bay area transitions into spring. The Homeless Leadership Alliance of Pinellas will open cold weather shelters Saturday across Pinellas for those seeking a warm place to stay overnight. By Sunday afternoon, temperatures are expected to climb to near 70 and the skies will clear in time for Tampa’s River O’ Green Fest, where the Hillsborough River will be dyed green for St. Patrick’s Day. It is expected to be windy, however. Looking toward next week, there’s a chance for a few scattered storms Wednesday and Thursday. However, the rest of the week will be clear for spring breakers flocking to the beaches. The high temperature each day should be in the high 70s or low 80s with morning lows in the low 60s. “Spring break should be pretty nice for the kids, and the spring breakers that are here,” Hurt said.