Robin Stamper and Melissa Misener remember that day two years ago, after completing Opera Tampa’s final dress rehearsal of The Pirates of Penzance. W.S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan’s comic opera was scheduled to open on March 13, 2020, when the world started shutting down because of the pandemic. Stamper, who is Opera Tampa’s managing and artistic director and conductor of the opera, messaged Misener, director and artistic manager, that morning: “Do you want to tell them, or should I?” Misener broke the news in an email to the cast and crew, and said they were crushed. They had a cast party on the night they were supposed to open and played charades because they were so keyed up to perform, Misener said. She thought the production would only be postponed for a couple of weeks. Two years later almost to the day, The Pirates of Penzance will be performed with The Florida Orchestra at The David A. Straz Jr. Center for the Performing Arts, on March 11 and March 13. It is sung in English and will have English supertitles. The Pirates of Penzance follows Frederic, a pirate apprentice coming to the end of his indentured period. He plans to spend his life working against pirates, despite his fondness for his tender-hearted comrades. When he meets a “bevy of beautiful maidens,” daughters of Major-General Stanley, the pirates descend on them. Double-crossing ensues in the satirical opera, which is heavy on “swashbuckling slapstick.” Misener said the company was excited to finally be performing the opera. “Finally we get to do it, and how rewarding it is, because we worked so hard on it,” she said. “It’s such a fun, clever show. And it really is just a delight, you’re just laughing and having such a great time. To not do it for our audience would just be a crime.” About half of the original cast remains in this production, making rehearsals feel like somewhat of a reunion and run remarkably smoothly. “People just kind of have their footing already,” Misener said. Having scores with notes from two years ago also helped with rehearsals. Misener said it’s still a little touch-and-go with COVID-19, but they’re testing everyone in the cast every day or every other day. Stamper said that during rehearsals, the cast must wear masks on stage. They’ll remove them for performances when they’re on stage, but have to put them back on offstage. Despite having years of experience, Stamper is making his Opera Tampa debut as conductor on the production. He has conducted it in the past even before 2020, when he originally rehearsed it for Opera Tampa. He said there is a fair amount of muscle memory that allows him to know exactly how he did it before. He said that because The Pirates of Penzance has dialogue that is not marked on the musicians’ scores, it’s up to him to direct the orchestra for pauses. An added layer, especially with a comedy, is taking pauses for audience laughter. Stamper said audiences should expect to have a good time and relax. “It’s great escapism,” he said. “Come to the theater and have a good laugh.” If you go The Pirates of Penzance, presented by Opera Tampa. Tickets start at $149.75 and are subject to change as the date approaches. 8 p.m. March 11 and 2 p.m. March 13. The David A. Straz Jr. Center for the Arts, 1010 N MacInnes Place, Tampa. 813-229-7827. strazcenter.org.