TAMPA — Bárbara Stefany Hernández-Hernández had hoped to escape to the United States from the economic strife in her homeland of Cuba by traveling first to Russia, the island nation’s one-time communist sponsor and a destination that requires no visa from visiting Cubans. At 24, Hernández-Hernández is known in the Latin music industry under her performance name of Stephanie 2H and had hoped to continue her music career here after making her way with her parents to relatives in Tampa. Then the Feb. 24 Russian invasion of Ukraine intervened. The woman now finds herself stranded with questionable immigration status at the border of Belarus, Russia’s ally in the attacks, and Poland, which has absorbed millions of Ukrainians and foreign nationals as refugees from the war. Few people knew of the family’s surreptitious plans to seek asylum in the United States. Then, earlier this month, Martha Hernández — the singer’s aunt and a Cuban immigrant living in Tampa — received an unexpected phone call. “She told me that she had no food or water, that it was very cold and that she was not allowed to enter Poland,” said Martha Hernández, 62, a home care nurse. “Nobody in the family knew about this trip. It was a very well-kept secret to get out of Cuba.” Since then, she and her husband have been scrambling to bring their niece to safety, seeking out media interviews, contacting Congress and helping coordinate on-the-ground efforts by another niece who lives in Spain. “Unfortunately, she has not been able to locate her,” Martha Hernández said Tuesday, growing emotional as she described her efforts. The last the family heard, Hernández-Hernández was stranded at a wooded border-crossing area where she had traveled by bus with other Cubans. “Polish police arrested Bárbara 48 hours ago, but released her back into the forest as if nothing had happened,” Martha Hernández said. In a series of videos her niece has posted to YouTube, at a channel titled Solo Sueña (Just Dream) where her 2,000 viewers go to see her performances, she said she feared that she and the others would die from the cold or lack of food. One human rights website said as many as 19 refugees have died in the area, most of them from the cold. Many of the refugees are unable even to return to their homes. “The Polish police won’t let us in and the Belarusians have threatened us with death,” Hernández-Hernández said in one video. “We are having a terrible time.” Her journey started in mid-February when she left Cuba for Russia with her mother, María De las Mercedes, 54, sister of Martha Hernández, and stepfather Oscar Joa, 47. The family visited Moscow and St. Petersburg as part of their ruse. They planned to take a commercial flight to Montenegro and seek refuge there on humanitarian grounds while applying for asylum in the U.S. Civil unrest and an exodus are underway in Cuba, driven by rising prices; shortages of food, medicine and electricity; and by an explosion in the number of coronavirus cases. In addition, recent U.S. restrictions aggravated the economic toll on Cuba from a U.S. travel and trade embargo that has stretched six decades Her parents made the trip to Montenegro and remain there still. But Hernández-Hernández had to stay behind in St. Petersburg after she tested positive for COVID-19. They all agreed to meet up again in a week, not knowing that the Ukraine attack was imminent. Hernández-Hernández was unable to find a flight to Montenegro. In her desperation to be reunited with her family, she decided to travel 462 miles by bus and train to Belarus. There she continued on her way to the border with Poland, along with five other Cubans she met on her journey, to try to cross through the Bruzgi-Kuznic border post, still three countries away from Montenegro. The area is a forested strip along the 250-mile border between Poland and Belarus. The border crossing is a pressure cooker, where as far back as September Poland and other European Union members accused Russia ally Belarus of orchestrating a refugee crisis to destabilize the region. Belarus let through thousands of migrants from countries including Iraq, Sudan and Syria, directing them to Poland’s border. The Polish government responded by boosting its military presence at the border and by using water cannons and tear gas against the refugees. Tensions since then have only increased with the attack on Ukraine. Martha Hernández and her husband, Hugo Camejo, a 64-year-old maintenance worker at an apartment complex in Tampa, have kept in constant contact with niece Janete Medina in Spain. Medina, 41, rented a car and drove to Poland last week to try to find and help her cousin Hernández-Hernández. She managed to get her on the phone for a few minutes early Monday. Hernández-Hernández told her that the Polish authorities were allowing only Polish residents to enter the country. They fire guns in the air and tear gas to turn back the refugees. “Basically, Bárbara is in an immigration limbo,” Medina said in a telephone interview at midday Tuesday with the Tampa Bay Times. “Nobody wants to take responsibility.” During the weekend, Medina tried to approach the border from the Polish village of Kuznica but the police stopped her. “There is no way to get there,” Medina said. “We are willing to take care of her, but nobody listens to us.” Martha Hernández and her husband have asked for help from U.S. Rep. María Elvira Salazar, a Miami Republican and former Spanish-language TV news anchor. “The congresswoman’s office told us that they can’t do anything,” she said. Salazar’s office acknowledged it had been contacted about Hernández-Hernández but declined to elaborate. Martha Hernández has also appeared on Telemundo to tell of her niece’s plight. She is confident her niece would find a rewarding new life if she can make it to Tampa, a community that boasts close historical and cultural ties with Cuba and has the third–largest population of Cuban-Americans in the United States. “We are waiting for a miracle,” she said, “because the days and hours go by and we don’t see any hopeful answer.”