In Clearwater, just like the rest of Tampa Bay, rents are rising, home ownership has become less affordable, and residents are looking to local government for solutions. At a City Council candidate forum last week, the six candidates running for two seats in the March 15 election were asked whether they would support declaring a housing state of emergency. Only Seat 4 candidate Maranda Douglas and Seat 5 candidate Jonathan Wade said yes. “When people can’t afford to stay in their house and have a place to stay, that’s an emergency,” said Wade, pastor of St. James African Methodist Episcopal Church. All candidates regarded affordable housing as a serious issue, but Seat 5 candidates Aaron Smith-Levin and Lina Teixeira both said they didn’t know the legal implications of a state of emergency. Seat 4 incumbent council member David Allbritton said he wouldn’t declare an emergency for Clearwater because “it’s happening everywhere.” Seat 4 challenger Gerry Lee said affordable housing is the “highest priority” but he wouldn’t declare an emergency. “Everyone I talk to is being impacted by increases in rent, increases in the cost of living, so I’m not sure what kind of circles they run in that they are not seeing housing as a crisis, but we are in one,” Mike Sutton, CEO of Habitat for Humanity of Pinellas and West Pasco Counties, said in a later interview. The cities of Clearwater, Largo, Pinellas Park and St. Petersburg have in recent months signed a compact with Pinellas County government that outlines “a common set of policies to create more housing that’s affordable countywide.” Pinellas County has dedicated $80 million of Penny for Pinellas one-cent sales tax dollars this decade to develop affordable housing. Clearwater uses three pots of state and federal funding to provide down payment assistance and rehabilitation loans to residents as well as incentives to developers to build affordable units. But Denise Sanderson, the city’s economic development and housing director, said municipalities must also look at other creative solutions because it’s not possible to “build our way out of the affordable housing crisis.” One strategy, she said, is to recruit high wage employers so residents can “continue to build personal wealth, advanced skills and wages so they can afford to have security and retirement and all the things we dream of.” The St. Petersburg City Council in December began exploring the legality of declaring a state of emergency in order to freeze rent prices up to a year. But in February, a committee voted against advancing the initiative to the full council after the legal department advised it could open the city up to costly lawsuits. At the NAACP Clearwater Upper Pinellas County Branch election forum last week, Clearwater council candidates faced questions about housing from multiple residents. Douglas, a community activist running for Seat 4, said she would push the Clearwater council to adopt a tenant bill of rights as governments have done in Tampa, St. Petersburg and Hillsborough County. Those resolutions typically require landlords to provide tenants with notice of their housing rights under existing laws, a list of resources for tenants’ assistance and disclosure of late fees that can be assessed. Smith-Levin, the Seat 5 candidate, said rental assistance must be just as much a part of the conversation as developer incentives. Teixeira, also running for Seat 5, said education is critical as the “not in my backyard” narrative still persists among residents. Lee, the Seat 4 candidate, said he would push for the city to buy more land from private owners to then sell to developers for affordable housing. Allbritton, the Seat 4 incumbent, praised Clearwater’s current use of federal and state funding to provide incentives to developers to make units affordable for those who earn between 60 percent and 120 percent of the area’s median income. Sutton, the Habitat for Humanity CEO, said one of the most impactful actions local governments can take is to “cut red tape.” His organization is preparing to build homes on five lots the group is buying from the city this year off Myrtle Avenue. But two of the five must go through hearings to rezone them from industrial to residential. The timeline includes six city and county hearings that will stretch from March through July. “The bureaucracy, the process, is too long,” Sutton said. “If you look at it from a business sense, time is money. And when it takes months upon months to get through permitting and zoning, it’s going to turn people away from doing affordable projects.” Costs for an 81-unit affordable housing project being built at the city’s former fire station on Franklin Street by Tampa-based Blue Sky Communities have risen $4.6 million since first pitched to the city in 2019. The project was delayed as it took two years for the developer to secure state tax credits. In December the council awarded Blue Sky $1.8 million from its pot of state and federal housing money, on top of the original $610,000 committed in 2019, to assist with the increases. The Pinellas County Commission also awarded the project $2 million from the Penny for Pinellas affordable housing program due to the increase. Sutton said it costs $30,000 more today to build an average Habitat for Humanity home than it did before the pandemic began in early 2020. “The cost of homes continue to increase, the supply chain is a challenge, the process is a challenge,” Sutton said. “The only thing that’s not changing is the affordability for homeowners.”