PORT CHARLOTTE — A player saying he is reporting to spring training in the best shape of his career is arguably the biggest cliché in baseball, as Brett Phillips is well aware, given the mocking laugh he used Saturday when saying so. But, he really is. An increase in workout regimens and a decrease in calorie consumption allowed the Rays outfielder to reshape his body. He dropped a few pounds from the 195 he played at last year, but, more significantly, cut his body fat from 17 percent to 10-11. And he feels pretty good about it. “To the average human being, (17 percent is) pretty normal, right?” he said. “But for a centerfielder in the big leagues, that’s unacceptable. I knew that. My body knew that. I addressed some internal situations that needed to be addressed. Visceral fat was way too high. “So through hot yoga and through working out and just eating a little more healthier, I was able to address those things I needed to address. I feel in great shape. How that’s going to translate, I don’t know. But I’m healthy and — I know everyone says this — in the best shape of my life.” Phillips was among the early reporters to Rays camp Saturday, checking in and taking a round of batting practice in the indoor cages. He made an immediate impression on manager Kevin Cash. “Awesome to see him,” Cash said. “He looks really good. Not that he was ever overweight, but he actually looks trimmed down. He’s worked hard; that was encouraging.” Phillips, 27, is coming off the most productive season of his career, posting 13 homers, 44 RBIs and a .727 OPS with a .206 average. He timed it well, as he has become eligible for arbitration this year and is likely to double his salary in getting seven figures. “I feel like I’m putting myself in the best position to succeed in what I think is the most important year of my career,” he said. “I feel strong. I’m stronger than I ever was. Fat wise, I’m lighter than I’ve been since 2014. This is what I looked like when I was putting my best baseball together.” Game time Given that the Rays don’t expect to have their full squad in camp until Tuesday at the earliest, it could be challenging to put together a lineup of hitters and pitchers ready to start playing games Friday, when they open the revised regional exhibition schedule at the Red Sox. Games are expected to be scheduled for a full nine innings, though Cash said they expect to find out at a meeting later this week of league officials, team executives, managers and pitching coaches if the early games can be shortened by mutual agreement if teams are short-handed. Another option is for teams to use minor-leaguers who have been in camp since early March to fill in. “I would imagine we’re going to see a lot of exciting young players in the early goings,” Cash said. Miscellany Cash said they are planning informal workouts for players after physical exams Sunday, a slightly more structured routine Monday and a full workout Tuesday. Assuming most of the players are here, Cash will then have his annual camp opening address. As usual, it will be brief: “Eighteen seconds,” he said. … Lefty Shane McClanahan wanted to lower his number from the 62 he was given as a big-league camp invitee in 2020, so he said yes when head home clubhouse and equipment manager Tyler Wall offered him 18, which was worn by the since-traded Joey Wendle. McClanahan has always liked 8 since it was worn by his favorite player, Cal Ripken, but since that number is worn by teammate Brandon Lowe, 18 was close enough. ... The Rays will provide radio coverage of 13 of the exhibition games, with weekend games on 620-AM and the network of stations, weekday games via raysbaseball.com and the MLB app. … McClanahan said the first player he reached out to when he reported to camp Friday was pitcher David Hess, who is in camp and healthy after battling with a cancerous germ cell tumor in his chest that required treatment with chemotherapy during the offseason. “That guy, he’s unbelievable,” McClanahan said. “From what he’s dealt with and the adversity he’s overcome, for him to be here and still smiling and kicking butt is awesome.” ... Workouts on the Charlotte Sports Park stadium field will be open to fans starting Monday at 10 a.m. and for the rest of the week. Entrance is through the security checkpoint on the rightfield side; no chairs, bags or umbrellas. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.