TAMPA — Texas A&M came to Amalie Arena needing to play its way into the NCAA Tournament. Three wins in three days — including Saturday’s 82-64 SEC tournament semifinal win over fourth-seeded Arkansas — should do the trick. And for that, the eighth-seeded Aggies can point to their awful eight-game losing streak earlier this season that put them on or outside the bubble in the first place. “Losing eight straight will teach you something,” guard Quenton Jackson said. “When things are not going our way, we know to stay calm. We know to stay collected. We know to stay together, and that helped us.” So did another hot start. Texas A&M (23-11) was 6-of-11 from 3-point range in the first half, continuing an uncharacteristic streak. The Aggies made 32.6 percent of their long-range attempts during the regular season and 6.8 per game. They’re a combined 25-of-48 in wins over Florida, Auburn, and Arkansas (25-8). Texas A&M’s defense was also stingy early. The Aggies forced the Razorbacks into a pair of early air balls and nine first-half turnovers to open up a 36-24 lead at the break. “We didn’t play very well at all,” Razorbacks coach Eric Musselman said. “Not happy about it at all.” Arkansas started a comeback four minutes into the second half with what looked like a pivotal sequence. Texas A&M missed a layup then was blocked by Stanley Umude. Davonte Davis’ three-point play cut the Aggies’ lead to five. But Texas A&M answered immediately with a 6-0 run. The highlight: Hassan Diarra, who hit the game-winner against Florida on Thursday, poking the ball out to set up a breakaway dunk by Jackson, the hero of Friday’s upset of top-seeded Auburn. After fading late against the Gators and making things too close for comfort against the Tigers, Texas A&M left nothing in doubt this time. Hayden Hefner, Jackson and Henry Coleman all threw down dunks to help the Aggies pull away for good. Consider it a lesson from the mid-season slump. Saturday’s triumph sends the eighth-seeded Aggies to their second-ever SEC championship game and the first since an overtime loss to Kentucky in 2016. Texas A&M hasn’t won a conference tournament of any sort since claiming the Southwest Conference crown in 1987. The game ended awkwardly, with Musselman yelling, presumably at the officials. The Razorbacks left the court without shaking hands. Jackson led the Aggies with 20 points, five rebounds, six assists and four steals. Awesome, baby! College basketball legend Dick Vitale received a standing ovation before Saturday’s semifinals in his first game back in three months. Vitale has been sidelined since December after doctors discovered precancerous dysplasia on his vocal cords. He has been resting his voice while recovering from surgery and undergoing treatment for lymphoma. He announced Tuesday that he is in remission. The ESPN broadcaster and Lakewood Ranch resident met with SEC commissioner Greg Sankey on the court as the crowd recognized him. Wade out LSU’s Will Wade became the third coach to be fired during the tournament. Wade’s Tigers lost to Arkansas 79-67 in Friday’s quarterfinal. Wade has been under NCAA scrutiny for years after being caught on a wiretap discussing a strong offer for a recruit. The Tigers recently received a notice of allegations from the NCAA, which Wade repeatedly declined to comment on while in Tampa. LSU is projected to be a No. 6 seed in the NCAA Tournament, according to ESPN. Georgia’s Tom Crean and Missouri’s Cuonzo Martin also coached their final games with those teams in Tampa. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.