Colin Poche says it before you do, that he may be more eager than any other player in the majors to end the lockout and get back on the field. That’s because the Rays reliever hasn’t pitched in a real game since the 2019 playoffs. He injured his left elbow during the Spring 2.0 workouts leading up to the delayed 2020 season and spent last year rehabbing from his second Tommy John surgery. “It’s killing me,” Poche said Friday. “It’s definitely been a long time, and it’s itching at me to get back out there. I missed being able to compete. Obviously, it hurts being delayed right now. I would love to be out there competing. “But it’s for the right cause. So I’m willing to hold off for however long we need.” A number of players have been saying similar things about union unity since labor talks broke off Tuesday and commissioner Rob Manfred announced the cancellation of the first two series of the regular season. Poche has made a point to keep up with the specifics in the labor negotiations — going over the updates passed on by Rays player representative Tyler Glasnow, texting and talking with teammate and reading as many articles as he can. He is convinced the players will ride out a long delay, even as they start missing paychecks, realizing the importance of the fight for the future of the game. “Everyone in the group chat and everyone that I’ve talked to, we seem pretty united,” Poche said. “Everyone seems like they have a clear conscience of what we’re going for. And they all seem like it’s the right thing to do. “So I think as a union, we’re pretty strong. Definitely, at least on the conversations I can speak of. So I think we will hold together for however long it takes. And I know that the union is set up pretty well to take care of guys (with financial assistance) in the meantime. So I think we’re in a strong place to stick it out.” Poche hasn’t been shy about sharing opinions, his or others’, on his Twitter account (@colinpoche), noting how owners might benefit from canceling games and jabbing at them for seeking governmental assistance in seeking mediation. He also has been creative, including a post playing off a scene from The Benchwarmers movie with his photo on a piece of paper saying he is 12 years old and therefore can at least play in a youth league. “I thought it was funny,” Poche said. “Just little poke a little fun at the lockout. But it’s not so funny anymore now.” Poche, 28, has had an eventful couple of months, completing his rehab with his arm feeling good and being cleared to return in the fall instructional league; getting married in November; and dealing this past week with his wife, Jessica, having appendicitis and emergency surgery, from which she is recovering well. At some point, getting back on the mound and then into a game will be the biggest deal. He’s willing to wait. Labor pains Rules banning the shift being included in a new labor agreement seemingly could have a huge impact on the Rays. But maybe not as much as you’d think, as there should be an evening-out benefit for their hitters given how many other teams also shift often. A much bigger deal would be a rule limiting player options to five per season, given how much the Rays depend on churning their bullpen to always have fresh arms available. Call it the Louis Head Rule, as he was optioned 12 times in 2021. … Even with a prompt settlement, MLB now says spring training games won’t begin before March 18. Expect additional regular-season games, which would include the Rays’ planned April 8 home opener, to be canceled soon. … Reportedly mentioned as an owners’ request but not included in their latest proposal was a request for the union to drop its still unresolved February 2018 grievance against the Rays, Marlins, A’s and Pirates for failing to properly spend revenue-sharing money. The Rays, at least, have never seemed too concerned about having done anything wrong. ... Competitive Balance Tax thresholds are a key issue in getting a deal. Which made it interesting that, according The Athletic, four owners opposed to an increase to even $220 million — well short of the players’ $238 million request — weren’t all small-market teams. They were  from the Angels, Diamondbacks, Reds and Tigers. … One big question when a deal is reached is whether there will be a Rule 5 draft this year. Rays rumblings A collection of projections on fangraphs.com have Wander Franco hitting between .283-.298 with 16-19 homers, 71-85 RBIs, 81-102 runs this season. … Jim Bowden predicts in The Athletic that Shane Baz will be the AL’s top rookie pitcher and has him on the list of the dozen hurlers he wants to see this spring. … In a potential feel-good story, Jack Snyder, who pitched last season in independent ball after going undrafted out of Western Carolina, was signed to a minor-league deal after a showcase session at Tread Athletics. The session was organized, in part, by Triple-A Durham pitcher Tyler Zombro. Snyder, 23, threw 93-95 mph in his first Rays bullpen session. … With a number of women working in baseball operations throughout the organization, the Rays are adding a small women’s locker room inside their Tropicana Field clubhouse. … The two home batting cages under the first base stands were refurbished and the space slightly reconfigured. … De Anna Sheffield Ward joined the team as vice president of media and communications. Eric Weisberg shifted from VP of marketing and creative services to fan experience. … While Zombro was idled in September while recovering from head injuries sustained when hit by a line drive in June, he took the Rays up on an offer to do some remote advance scouting on potential playoff opponents and analyzed Seattle pitchers. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.