PORT CHARLOTTE — He’s not likely to get more than a handful of at-bats before the abbreviated spring ends next week, but Rays centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier is not worried about being ready for opening day. “Plenty of time,” Kiermaier said. “I know this is different than in-season, but last year I went to the IL twice and I did not have any at-bats in between those 10-14 days, and my best games last year were coming off that, the first game.” He’s not wrong about that. After missing 10 games in April with a quad strain, Kiermaier hit .346 in his first 26 at-bats off the injured list last season. When he missed eight games in May with a sore wrist, Kiermaier went 4-for-9 in his first two games back. This time, Kiermaier has been kept out of the past four games with a sore groin. Before that, he missed the first few games of spring with a sore neck/back. He’s gotten four at-bats in spring games. Manager Kevin Cash threw batting practice to Kiermaier on Monday’s off day and said he’s tentatively scheduled to play at home Friday against Boston, which would be one week before the regular-season opener. With his 32nd birthday coming up next month, Kiermaier joked that he’s been relegated to a slow-moving rehab schedule. He’s acted as a stand-in batter for pitchers warming up in the bullpen, which helps him get accustomed to the speed of pitches. “I’m confident I’ll be ready,” Kiermaier said. “It’s not how you would draw it up with a couple of (injuries) in a shortened spring, but if anyone can get through it, it’s me.” The Fairbanks dilemma Reliever Pete Fairbanks was scheduled to have a second opinion Tuesday on the lat muscle problem that is likely to keep him out for several months. Cash did not pretend that Fairbanks’ absence won’t be felt, particularly in situations where the Rays need a strikeout. “We all know, when Pete’s right, he’s pretty special down there,” Cash said. “He’s shown the ability to pitch out of jams, come in (in) sticky situations, because he just creates so much swing-and-miss. A lot of guys can down there, but I would say when he’s right he’s probably at the top of the list of getting strikeouts.” Fairbanks has averaged 11.9 strikeouts per nine innings during this two-plus seasons in Tampa Bay. Miscellany Drew Rasmussen unveiled an alternate version of his slider during a three-inning appearance in Tuesday’s 4-2 win against the Twins. Rasmussen says he is working on a harder slider in the 89-90 mph range with a smaller break, and then a slower, sweeping slider in the low-80s … Manuel Margot homered and singled in his first two at-bats and is now hitting .308 for the spring … LHP Cody Reed, RHP Seth Blair and RHP Dusten Knight were reassigned to minor-league camp. The Rays now have 38 active players in the big-league camp … New acquisition Harold Ramirez is expected to make his Rays debut in Wednesday’s game at Sarasota. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.