TORONTO — Andrei Vasilevskiy wasn’t happy. Though the Lightning had played one of their most complete games of the past month, a 2-1 overtime loss to the Bruins on April 8 at Amalie Arena dropped them to fourth place in the Atlantic Division. As on many other nights, Vasilevskiy had been the Lightning’s backbone. His 35 saves, including 23 straight at one point, had kept Tampa Bay in the game. And the two goals he allowed were the result of bad breaks. Still, the loss stuck with the goaltender. “He was just so hard on himself,” assistant coach Derek Lalonde said. “You could see him wearing it after the game. He wore it through the next morning. I think it’s part of his growth, but at the same time, it’s why he’s also so special. … Even when you can see some frustrations in his game, as a staff we weren’t concerned. He has such a standard for himself.” At 27, Vasilevskiy has built a Hall of Fame-caliber resume on being at his best in the biggest moments, particularly in the postseason. As the Lightning try to become the first team to win three consecutive Stanley Cups since the Islanders won four from 1980-83, Vasilevskiy is the biggest reason Tampa Bay believes it can make history. “We know we’re going to have a chance to win every night,” defenseman Victor Hedman said. " ‘Vasy’ has shown in the postseason the competitor he is, and the bigger the games, it feels like he just gets better.” A place in history Only two goaltenders in NHL history own two Stanley Cup championships, two first-team All-Star selections, a Vezina Trophy and a Conn Smythe Trophy by the age of 27: Vasilevskiy and Hall of Famer Patrick Roy. A third consecutive Cup would seal Vasilevskiy’s greatness. Just five starting goaltenders in league history have won three straight, and only the Canadiens’ Ken Dryden and the Islanders’ Billy Smith have done so since the NHL expanded from the original six teams in 1967. Both won four straight. “We’re always talking about who’s the top five, who’s on the Mount Rushmore, and this guy is starting to creep up into that talk,” said TNT analyst Rick Tocchet, an 18-year NHL veteran and former Lightning coach. “I know he’s still (27) and still has got a lot of hockey left, but what he’s accomplished, especially these last three, four years, and what he’s done in pressure situations, is a marvel to me. … A lot of hockey, a lot of pressure on him, and he’s delivered every time.” Dryden, whose Montreal teams won four straight Cups from 1976-79, is the only goaltender to earn every postseason win on three straight Cup-winning teams. But at that time, a team needed 12 wins to hoist the Cup. Including the round-robin games in 2020, Vasilevskiy has won 34 over the past two postseasons. Dryden won 48 during the Canadiens’ run. “It goes hand in glove,” said Lightning TV analyst Brian Engblom, who played with Dryden in Montreal in the late ‘70s. “Ken Dryden played on a pretty fantastic team, and there were 10 guys in the Hall of Fame from that team. So you have to have a team that’s got the horses. “(Vasilevskiy) makes the saves, but you have to be able to score some goals. You have to be able to control the puck in order to win Stanley Cups. You have to have it both. The Lightning have all the same components.” A winning mentality No goaltender has played more games than Vasilevskiy over the past three seasons, so the biggest question entering this season was how he would hold up physically. Though Vasilevskiy played 77 percent of the Lightning’s games during the regular season, the staff was careful to make sure he got rest, lowering his ice time in practice while allowing him to get in his workouts in the weight room, a key component of his routine. Vasilevskiy isn’t worried about the load he’s carried physically. Winning in the postseason is more about having a mental edge. “It all starts from inside your head,” Vasilevskiy said. “If my mind is in a good place, it doesn’t matter if it’s one game a week or five. … So my goal is just to put my mindset in the right place and just to focus on the game, making saves and putting my emotions in the right direction.” Vasilevskiy has shown the ability to be unflappable since filling in for Ben Bishop in the 2015 Cup final against the Blackhawks at 20. “(Vasilevskiy is) big, he’s powerful, he’s durable,” said ESPN and NHL Network analyst Kevin Weekes, a former NHL goaltender who played for the Lightning. “He’s impervious to the pressure. He’s got a special makeup and one of the highest-level work ethics. When the stakes are at the highest, he’s made a history in delivering in those moments. “When I first saw him play in the Stanley Cup final (in 2015), I was thinking, ‘You could be in junior or playing college hockey.’ For him to show that composure even then, that showed me he had that ‘it’ factor.” Of goaltenders with at least 80 postseason starts, Vasilevskiy’s .924 career save percentage is fourth-best all time. He has been even better over the past two postseasons, with a .932 percentage. Vasilevskiy has 49 postseason wins in 81 games (76 starts) and enters these playoffs with a streak of five consecutive shutout wins in series-clinching games dating to the Lightning’s Cup-title-clinching win over the Stars in 2020. “He allows you to be a confident team,” Engblom said. “You just know the guy’s so good, he’s going to make saves for you. (The players) can say, ‘We’re awful in the first period.’ They’re trying and can’t get anything to go in. And it’s like, ‘We’ll be all right. No. 88 is there.’ “So when you have that confidence level, you know if you get it going, you’ll win. That’s a huge plus that very, very few teams get to have.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.