ST. PETERSBURG — Shane McClanahan is excited about making the opening day start for the Rays on Friday. At 24 years old, he is doing so for the first time, for a team with a pedigreed list of past starters, and with his dad and a dozen or so other relatives and friends watching from the stands. It’s just that McClanahan, who has yet to spend a full season in the majors, has already had some marquee moments: an unprecedented debut in the 2020 postseason, including a World Series appearance; a dominant outing in an ESPN Sunday Night Baseball game against the Red Sox last year; and a start in the opening game and relief outing in the final game of the American League Division Series against Boston. So his view of Friday’s assignment is somewhat tempered. “It’s exciting,” McClanahan said. “I mean, it’s a big game. I don’t know if it’s the biggest game I’ve ever pitched in. But I’m definitely excited. “I think the Rays have done a good job of getting me acclimated to kind of the pressures of Major League Baseball and everything like that over the last two years. And I think I’m in a good spot because of it today.” Manager Kevin Cash said McClanahan was the “obvious” choice, having come up at the end of April last year and pitched his way into the top spot in the rotation after Tyler Glasnow was injured. He finished 10-6, 3.43, while getting votes for AL Rookie of the Year and preseason mention for this year’s Cy Young honors. “He’s very deserving,” Cash sad. “He’s going to get better, too. “As good as he was, I think what we saw last year, the experiences that he had, way more ups and downs, but the minimal downs that he had, he seemed to recover from very, very quickly, make an adjustment. Even if it was in the game, a rough inning, a high pitch inning, he had the ability to shorten that next inning up, be efficient.” It was more impressive, Cash said, given that it was his first year in the majors. “That’s challenging for a young pitcher,” Cash said “Young pitchers can easily have a long inning and then chase themselves to try to just get through the next (inning), or get through the game. Shane seemed to have the ability to kind of nip it right there and get his pitch count in order and with dominating stuff.” With an upper-90s fastball headlining a four-pitch mix, McClanahan has the repertoire of a top starter. His serious approach on the mound suggests he also has the temperament, and he won’t be overwhelmed by the pomp nor the circumstance of the opener. “You’d like to think that, yeah,” Cash said. “I think this moment, he’ll embrace as much as anything. He has had the reps, whether it was Sunday Night Baseball, in 2021 against the Red Sox, where he pitched so good, that was a pretty loud environment here, and in the postseason as well.” Though McClanahan won’t show it, he insists he appreciates how special an honor it is to be an opening day starter — the 15th in the Rays’ 25-season history, and the youngest since 23-year-old Scott Kazmir in 2007 — and how much it means to his family and friends. “I feel like I’m all business when I have to be, and that’s a very small portion of my time in the baseball world,” he said. “I’m very excited to see them. I know. They’re excited to be here. And I’m ready to get this thing going.” Most of all, for his father, James “Clancy” McClanahan. “Played catch with that guy all growing up, and he turns 70 this year,” McClanahan said. “So I know this is going to mean a lot him.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.