Imagine if ... The March letter of the month Editor’s note: The March letter of the month reacted to a study reporting that mild COVID can shrink the brain. Perhaps the many unvaccinated males in Florida would think differently if COVID shrank another part of their anatomy rather than just the brain. Janet Kruger, Dunedin Campaign on decency The bullies’ pulpit | Perspective, March 27 Barry Golson’s superb piece on standing up for decency should be adopted as the theme for electing Democratic candidates this year and in 2024. The Democratic campaigns should use split screen technology to emphasize the difference between the dozens of examples of Republican lies, threats to democracy, hypocrisy and bullying. President Joe Biden’s embrace of Ukrainian children or eating lunch with American soldiers on the left side of the TV or computer screen, juxtaposed on the right with images of Donald Trump’s making fun of a reporter with a disability is just one possibility. Gov. Ron DeSantis is also no slouch when it comes to visual messages of insensitivity, arrogance and meanness. The objective is to convince the maybe 5 percent of persuadable Republicans to vote Democratic. The other 95 percent will continue to support Putinesque thinking. Golson’s plea for decency should be required reading for Democratic politicians. Most of them are decent, but their inability to sell that message is a huge contributor to the cult of power, lunacy and indecency infecting too many regular citizens. David Nathanson, Tampa, What about the men? Florida’s 15-week abortion ban would be cruel | Editorial, March 6 Legislators banned many abortions for women financially or emotionally unable to carry on with a pregnancy, but there are no repercussions for the men involved in the pregnancy. It takes two to make a baby, but only the women are forced to carry a baby they aren’t ready to care for. Many companies can deny birth control to women. Maybe men need to face consequences also and maybe less women would be in this situation. Linda Lorenz, Spring Hill It doesn’t say ‘gay’ DeSantis signs so-called ‘don’t say gay’ bill | March 29 Gov. Ron DeSantis has signed into law HB 1557, a bill that forbids instruction related to gender identity or sexual orientation in kindergarten through third grade. The bill has nothing to do with banning or saying the word gay or being gay or being lesbian. As parents, my wife and I had the responsibility to decide when to discuss sex with our children. I am sick and tired of it when the media misrepresent the truth. Come November, the left and those who support the left are going to find out that we Americans are not as dumb as you think. MarK Khan, Tampa The work we do Occupational therapy month According to World Population Review, Tampa has an estimated 47,774 seniors, a number that is continually increasing. As a Tampa native and a doctor of occupational therapy student — and because April is occupational therapy month — I wanted to share some information on how occupational therapists can support valuable, meaningful lives of seniors. Occupational therapists are experts in promoting participation in an array of activities seniors engage in— otherwise known as “occupations.” These can include activities clients want, need or are expected to do. Occupational therapists work collaboratively with clients and caregivers to identify strengths and barriers to participation in roles and activities. Occupational therapists can work in assisted living or skilled nursing facilities, senior centers, in the home, community, and more! For example, an occupational therapist can assess a client and their home and recommend home modifications, such as the removal of fall hazards or addition of grab bars in the shower, to promote safety and participation. One study identified strong evidence for reducing falls when occupational therapists implemented home modifications and a fall prevention intervention in seniors (https://doi.org/10.5014/ajot.2017.018887). Additionally, occupational therapists can provide interventions aimed at improving driving performance to increase seniors’ mobility within the community, implement compensatory or problem-solving strategies with a senior with low vision, or creating client-centered self-management programs for seniors with chronic conditions. In short, the impact of occupational therapy can be tremendous. Kasey Fenton, Land O’ Lakes