PORT CHARLOTTE — Up close, they are exactly who they appear to be. A varied collection of slightly flawed, mostly inexpensive, rarely idolized hitters. Swing hard, miss often, leave an odd-looking box score. It’s only when you step back and view the Rays lineup from afar that you see the artistry of their assemblage. They don’t hit for a high average, they strike out a ton, they utilize platoons more than just about anyone, yet they are outscoring lineups jammed with MVPs and cover boys. That’s not an exaggeration. The Rays scored more runs in 2021 than the Dodgers. More than the Yankees, Blue Jays and Red Sox, too. In fact, they scored more runs than any team in MLB history that had a collective batting average below .250. “We just get there,” manager Kevin Cash said, “in a little different way.” It’s not a conventional lineup, but it is a purposeful one. Instead of chasing a handful of high-end bats to build around, the Rays instead stock up on hitters who might do one thing exceptionally well. That could be hitting for power, that could be working the count, that could be mashing right-handed pitching. And instead of filling out the same nine names in the lineup card on most days, Cash is able to mix/match from the first inning through the end of the game. They have flaws, for sure, but they are able to minimize them by putting players in a position to succeed. “We take pride in having a really deep lineup,” general manager Pete Bendix said. “And having such a deep lineup in which there is no easy out, I think it builds and guys feed off each other. As a result, they get a little bit more out of the lineup than the sum of their parts. “Some of that comes from wearing pitchers down. In previous versions of this club — even our really good teams — we’ve had one or two guys that you could circle and say, ‘That guy, I don’t need to worry about as much.’ Last year, even in the bottom half of our lineup, we had guys who could really hurt you.” Not surprisingly, that is a Rays-centric trait. Tampa Bay’s 3-4-5 spots in the lineup — typically the guys who make the big bucks on other teams — combined for 66 home runs last season. And that was about 15 homers below league average. The 7-8-9 spots, on the other hand, combined for 70 home runs. That was the most in the majors and about 25 more than league average. So the numbers eventually came out in Tampa Bay’s favor. The Rays just, typically, took an atypical path getting there. If there are priorities for the Rays, it is finding hitters with good plate discipline who consistently hit the ball with a high exit velocity. Those traits may not always show up in a player’s conventional statistics on a year-to-year basis, but that can work in Tampa Bay’s favor when it comes to cost. A lower batting average or fewer home runs than expected can drop a player’s salary on the open market, and make him more attractive for the Rays. The idea is if a player has good plate discipline and draws a lot of walks, his on-base percentage will balance out the lower batting average. And a player with a consistently high exit velocity will eventually hit more homers or find more gaps. As if on cue, the Rays were third in the American League in percentage of walks and first in the percentage of hits that went for extra bases in 2021. Or course, one of the byproducts of swinging hard and going deep into the count is a high number of strikeouts. At one point last season, the Rays were on pace to set an MLB record for strikeouts. The trend turned a little when Willy Adames was traded and Wander Franco took over at shortstop. Franco had the lowest strikeout percentage on the team (12 percent of his at-bats), and his presence benefited everyone else. The Rays were averaging 4.84 runs per game when he was called up in June and averaged 5.66 runs per game the rest of the season. “Adding Wander certainly helped in a way that he was the total package: low strikeout, willing to walk and put everything in play,” Cash said. “That eliminates those real quick innings at times. And, look, Yandy (Diaz) and Ji-Man (Choi) also do it. They get there a little different way but they can really, really put some good at-bats together against quality pitching. “And that’s a big benefit to whoever follows them. They’re exhausting the pitcher and then Brandon (Lowe) or (Austin) Meadows walks up there and ‘Whack!’ So it’s very complementary to have those kind of hitters in the lineup.” The question now is whether this is sustainable. The Rays did not just set a franchise record for scoring last season, they crushed the old standard by 54 runs (857 to 803). Some of that can be attributed to their philosophies coming to fruition with players such as Mike Zunino having a career year (33 homers), and some of it was young stars like Franco, Lowe and Randy Arozarena adding pop. But there was also a lot of good fortune involved. For instance, a freakishly high number of Tampa Bay’s home runs (49.1 percent) came with runners on base. That’s the highest percentage in 20 years for teams with a similar number of homers. The Rays also hit better with runners on base (a .790 OPS versus .750 with the bases empty), which could have been a happy fluke. “A lot of baseball is the timing of your hits, and the timing if your hits has some element of randomness in it,” Bendix said. “That’s why you don’t see the same teams every year as the ones who get the most hits with runners on base. It kind of balances out from year to year. “At the same time, I think the depth of lineup does help. You can’t pitch around guys because you know there are some easy outs at the bottom of the lineup. A pitcher may not care if he loads the bases when he knows there’s a guy coming up that he’s likely to get out. But it’s a different equation when you load the bases and Mike Zunino is the No. 9 hitter the pitcher is going to be facing.” Once Stuart Sternberg took over the franchise in 2005, the Rays began prioritizing pitching and defense because they knew they could not afford to match the Yankees and Red Sox hitter for hitter. Yet, that’s exactly what they did in 2021 despite a payroll that was more than $100 million lower than either of their rivals. They prioritize flexibility as an economic necessity, but it ended up being a competitive advantage because there was so little dropoff whenever someone left the lineup. Is it possible a lot of 2021′s success reflected good timing with men on base? No doubt. But it’s also possible 2022 could be another step forward with Franco, Lowe and Arozarena approaching their primes. “A lot of these guys are still on the upswing and you can see them getting better, you can see them getting physically stronger and more confident,” Bendix said. “With some of these guys on the cusp and with the experiences they had last year, it’s not out of the question that we can be even better.” Boost from the bottom The typical team gets most of its home run production from the middle of the order. The Rays are rarely typical. Between Brandon Lowe hitting leadoff and Mike Zunino in the bottom third of the order, the Rays got most of their power from unusual spots in the lineup. No. 1: 38 home runs, 3rd in MLB No. 2: 27 home runs, T17th in MLB No. 3: 17 home runs, 29th in MLB No. 4: 28 home runs, 15th in MLB No. 5: 21 home runs, T20th in MLB No. 6: 21 home runs, T14th in MLB No. 7: 28 home runs, 1st in MLB No. 8: 24 home runs, T1st in MLB No. 9: 18 home runs, 2nd in MLB More bang, less bucks The Dodgers had a $266 million payroll in 2021 while the Rays came in at $70 million, according to Spotrac figures. Yet, for all the difference in resources, Tampa Bay put up surprisingly similar offensive numbers to the star-filled Los Angeles lineup. Batting average Dodgers: .244 Rays: .243 On-base percentage Dodgers: .330 Rays: .321 Slugging percentage Dodgers: .429 Rays: .429 OPS Dodgers: .759 Rays: .750 Home runs Dodgers: 237 Rays: 222 Runs per game Dodgers: 5.12 Rays: 5.29 John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.