ELMONT, N.Y. — The Lightning have had a bevy of talented scorers in their history, but none of them has put together a finish like Steven Stamkos. In the Lightning’s regular-season finale against the Islanders on Friday night, Stamkos led his team to a furious third-period comeback by completing his  franchise-record 10th career hat trick in a 6-4 win. The Lightning finished third in the Atlantic Division and get a first-round playoff matchup against the Maple Leafs. The Lightning know all too well that regular-season achievements don’t win Stanley Cups, but momentum entering the postseason is valuable nonetheless, and Tampa Bay capped a 51-win, 110-point season with wins in seven of its last nine games. Stamkos’ three-goal night gave him 26 points over his final nine games. His 33 points in April are the most by a Lightning player in a calendar month and the most by any NHL skater in a month since Mario Lemieux had 34 in December 1995. “What a run he went on,” coach Jon Cooper said. “Probably three weeks ago, if you said he was going to get 40 goals and 100 points, I don’t know if people would have bet on that. But good for him. He’s had a hell of a year, and hence we are where we are. We’ve needed contributions from everybody, but he has been a huge part of our team.” Now, the Lightning turn the page to the postseason, where their first playoff meeting with the Maple Leafs will feature Stamkos playing against his hometown team. “It’s been a long time  coming,” said Stamkos, who finished with  42 goals and a career-high 106 points. “We haven’t played them. For me, it’s not going to change anything. We’ve got a job to do, and that’s to win some games here in the playoffs no matter the opponent. “For sure, there’s going to be a lot of hype coming into this round, but our group is a mature group. We know how to handle a lot of different situations come playoff time, and we’ll have to lean on our experience here.” The Lightning were able to erase the frustration of a 5-2 loss in Columbus the previous night, after which Cooper questioned his team’s effort. But as the Lightning boarded a flight to Toronto late Friday, they looked forward to cementing their legacy as one of the game’s great teams by winning a third straight Stanley Cup. “We should all feel good,” said defenseman Ryan McDonagh. “It’s been a long year, and a couple of weeks ago we gave ourselves an opportunity again by clinching a spot in the playoffs, and it’s not an easy thing to do. Our group takes a lot of pride in giving ourselves that opportunity, and now it’s about making the most of it.” Friday’s win was not the Lightning’s best all-around effort. They fell behind 32 seconds into the game and trailed 3-1 after two periods, a deficit that could have been larger if not for the work of goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy (33 saves). Corey Perry started the comeback with a power-play goal just over a minute into the third period, benefiting from a slick touch pass from Nikita Kucherov. McDonagh tied the score midway through the period, jumping between the circles and shooting a puck that leaked past Islanders goaltender Ilya Sorokin. “We brought pucks to the net, shot a lot of pucks and just kind of created some chaos,” McDonagh said. “When you see the way (the Islanders’) goals were scored, hitting guys and hitting skates and going in, we kind of had to take a page out of their book and keep some sustained pressure in there by just (putting) pucks down in the net. “In the end, we clawed our way back into it.” Stamkos, who reached 40 goals in the first period to tie the score at 1, capitalized on an Islanders turnover in the neutral zone, scoring on a wrister from in front that beat Sorokin top-shelf glove side to give the Lightning a 4-3 lead. Ondrej Palat, who set up Stamkos’ second goal, took a loose puck in the neutral zone and found Stamkos along the far post with 2:10 left for the eventual winner. “I think we just we skated and we pressured and we forechecked,” Stamkos said. “I thought we got away from it in the second period a little bit. If we’re engaged physically and using our speed, then we create turnovers and you create some scrambles in the offensive zone, and I thought we executed that pretty well.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.