NEW PORT RICHEY — The massive, mixed-use community known as New Port Corners got a unanimous nod of approval this week from the Pasco County Commission. The project straddles Little Road and spans 954 acres north of Plathe Road and south of Decubellis Road. The development will feature 3,400 residential units including single-family, multi-family, townhouse and age-restricted units and include 1.4 million square feet for non-residential use. New Port Corners has been in the works for a dozen years. Representatives of the complex development have said it will provide a responsible mix of homes, employment-generating businesses, green spaces and integrated transportation systems. Parts of the community will be developed with alley access for vehicles and will resemble a downtown. Trails, neighborhood parks and protected wetlands were other features touted by the developer’s representatives. The major change since the original plan was approved by a 2010 commission vote is a scaled-down non-residential component. Attorney Clarke Hobby, who represents the developer, said during Tuesday’s public hearing that he is proud of the project work done since its inception to improve connectivity with the surrounding area. New Port Corners, he said, will provide “a special sense of place.” While the developer touted the features of the proposed community, nearby residents were concerned about the obvious impacts of extensive new development along a corridor of West Pasco which is already dealing with challenging traffic, flooding concerns, disappearing spaces for native wildlife and overburdened public safety agencies. “If I had known this coming, I would not have bought my house here,” said resident Barbara Costa. She said her neighborhood already has storm flooding issues and with the addition of so much new development, “it’s going to be a disaster.” Plathe Road resident Laura Jeske said the developers would be long gone from the area when the next drought hits and that the impact fees the county collects won’t pay for the burden imposed on county services by such a large development. She also noted that Pasco’s first responders already struggle to keep up with demand and New Port Corners will make their jobs even more difficult. “You can throttle back the explosive track of development you’re on,” she said. Marc Jeske suggested that commissioners, whose salaries rise as the county grows, should vote to freeze their salaries so that increased pay doesn’t influence their votes for continued growth. He noted that several commissioners had received campaign donations from developers and he suggested that any who received money from any of the parties involved in New Port Corners should recuse themselves. He knows the project can’t be stopped at this late date, so Jeske asked: “Why can’t we slow it down, slow it down a lot?” Hobby responded that the property was once citrus groves, and like so many other places in Florida, has always been destined for growth. “It’s always been planned for development,” he said.