TAMPA ― Bucs tight end Rob Gronkowski seemingly can’t decide whether he wants to retire or make one last ride into the sunset with Tom Brady. For Gronkowski, who appeared on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Wednesday night, rejoining Brady has its allure. “Peanut butter and jelly. Bread and butter. We’ll keep going,” said Gronkowsk, 32, who remains a free agent. ”I don’t know, just because that duo, man. It’s just so hard to get that connection. Especially in the NFL world, it doesn’t last that long. To see somebody have that connection for nine-plus years, it’s definitely in the back of my mind. “It’s not really like, you know, do I really want to be there? I love playing with the guys. That’s the best part. Being a part of a team. Do I want to do it every week in, week out? It’s a brutal game. For sure, I’m blocking guys that are sometimes 300 pounds in front of me, they’re coming full speed and smashing me. I’m catching a pass up the middle, and right when they catch me they’re smashing me from my legs all the way to my shoulders.” Gronkowski, who played nine seasons with Brady in New England before joining him in Tampa Bay, said he thought the quarterback would sit out a year before ending his retirement. Instead, Brady announced his return after just 41 days, on the eve of free agency. “He shot me a quick text and I was like, ‘Ah, it’s a day before — what’s that? The free-agency period where everyone starts signing. I was like, there he goes again with his tricks. He’s unretiring so everyone stays in Tampa. “Nah, I was not surprised at all. I was surprised how quick it was, because I thought it was possible he was going to take a year off or something like that and maybe come back after that. Because he’ll always have it. He’ll have it at least until he’s 50 years old. His work ethic day in and day out is second to none.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.