ELMONT, N.Y. — The Lightning’s chase for a third consecutive Stanley Cup has to go through the Maple Leafs. It took awhile for Tampa Bay to lock in a first-round postseason series with Toronto, but the Bruins’ 5-2 loss to the Maple Leafs on Friday clinched third place in the Atlantic Division for the Lighting before they finished their regular season with a 6-4 win over the Islanders. The series will open Monday night at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto. Lightning TV rights holder Bally Sports Sun will broadcast all first-round games. The matchup between the talent-laden clubs is expected to be the showcase series of the opening round. The Lightning are the defending back-to-back Stanley Cup champions. The Maple Leafs, led by Hart Trophy candidate Auston Matthews, are one of the top offensive teams, entering Friday tied for second in the league in goals per game (3.79) On Tuesday, Matthews became the first player to reach 60 goals in a season since the Lightning’s Steven Stamkos in 2011-12, and he finished the season with 106 points. Matthews’ teammate Mitch Marner finished with 97 points. The Maple Leafs have not won a postseason series since 2004. They were bounced in the opening round in each of their past five appearances, including a seven-game loss to the eventual Stanley Cup finalist Canadiens last season. This is the first time the Lightning have faced the Maple Leafs in the playoffs. Tampa Bay was 2-1-1 against Toronto in the regular season. The Lightning beat the Leafs 8-1 on April 21, Tampa Bay’s highest-scoring game and most-lopsided win of the season; Toronto was without Matthews and starting goaltender Jack Campbell in that game. Matthews had a hat trick in the Leafs’ 6-2 win over the Lightning on April 4 at Amalie Arena. Round 1 schedule Game 1 – Lightning at Maple Leafs, 7:30 p.m. Monday at Scotiabank Arena Game 2 - Lightning at Maple Leafs, 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, at Scotiabank Arena Game 3 – Maple Leafs at Lightning, 7:30 p.m. Friday, at Amalie Arena Game 4 – Maple Leafs at Lightning, 7 p.m. Sunday, May 8, at Amalie Arena Game 5 – Lightning at Maple Leafs, TBD Tuesday, May 10, at Scotiabank Arena * if necessary Game 6 – Maple Leafs at Lightning, TBD Thursday, May 12, at Amalie Arena *if necessary Game 7 – Lightning at Maple Leafs, TBD Saturday, May 14, at Scotiabank Arena *if necessary Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.