When is enough enough? He died a year ago. His estate just gave Tampa Bay charities $63 million | April 6 What incredible people David and Virginia Baldwin were, sharing their wealth with those who really need it. I never had the privilege of meeting them, but I’d be willing to bet that if they were still alive and owned rental properties, they wouldn’t be raising rents and gouging their tenants out of a week’s groceries just because they could. While supply chain issues and the high cost of food aren’t problems easily solved, it seems to me that the problem of affordable rents is: Stop the greed. When we vacated our rental home in Phoenix, the property owner who paid cash for the home increased the rent by $400 for the next tenant, no matter that the tenant was a single parent. Because she could. Wealthy investors and property owners could easily get by and live happily ever after with the profit they were making a few years ago, but it appears that is no longer enough. Bottom line, it is a lack of conscience. Not so complex a problem at all. Joyce Gesick, St. Petersburg Democrats do it, too The stealth coup that usurped the will of the people | Column, April 7 Leonard Pitts in his column seems to indicate that gerrymandering is solely a GOP effort. Nonsense!  The Democrats have either attempted or done the same in Illinois, Maryland, New York, New Mexico and a few other states. Bruce Thompson, Hudson It’s about fairness Why I vetoed Utah’s ban on transgender athletes | Veto letter, March 23 This makes no sense. “Kindness and understanding” have nothing to do with the situation. We Republicans have no intention of banning transgender athletes from sports because we hate them. It is happening because it is not fair for the women who work so hard to set new records year after year. And then to have that all whipped away by a male who is biologically bigger stronger and faster who identifies as a woman. We aren’t terrible people, but we do care about a fair playing field for the women of the NCAA. Simon Simpson, Seminole Don’t limit the future Three examples of the hypocrisy in Tallahassee | Editorial, April 6 Filtering out the life lessons of homosexuality and human sexuality in schools is going to be harmful for our future children. Why would we want to put limitations and barriers on our kids who are going to make the changes for our world? C.R. Cope, Largo