CHICAGO — Randy Arozarena had another eventful day on the bases for the Rays. It wasn’t all his doing, as he was involved in two key replay reviews in Tuesday’s 6-5 win over the Cubs. In the third inning, Arozarena initially was called out at first on the back end of a double play. But the call was reversed, as the Rays challenged at the insistence of new replay coordinator Randell Kanemaru. It worked out well as Wander Franco then hit a two-run home run. “I didn’t initially hit the ball well,” said Arozarena, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I knew if I just run I might have a chance and so luckily I was able to do that and Wander was able to produce that run for us after.” In the fifth, Arozarena drew a leadoff walk and raced home as Franco lashed a double into the left-center gap. But Arozarena, who lost his helmet before he rounded third and appeared to look back to check on the throw after he did, was called out at home. He immediately indicated to the Rays bench that he was safe, and they challenged both the call on the swipe tag and whether Cubs catcher Wilson Contreras provided him the required lane to the plate. The Rays were denied on both, and Arozarena was still out, their majors-most seventh runner thrown out on the bases in 12 games. Arozarena said he had no issue with where Contreras was, but felt he beat the tag. “I personally thought I was safe,” he said. “But when they challenged it and they looked at the replay, they saw something that said I was out. That’s something you have no control over now.” Drew Rasmussen sliding in Drew Rasmussen feels pretty good about his first two starts, working four innings against the Orioles and five against the White Sox. As he heads into his next, facing the Cubs on Wednesday, he has a plan for improvement, specifically making more use of the sweeping slider he added to his arsenal during spring training. “We’re going to look to throw the slider a little bit better in zone and then expand with it late,” he said. “The last outing, I didn’t feel like the command of it was great, but we’re still working on it. ... It’s something that’s new coming out of the lockout. And so we’re still playing around with it a little bit, but I think we’re in a good place.” Cash said he was impressed by newcomer Javy Guerra, who allowed a two-out homer and a single Monday in his first Rays inning after being acquired from San Diego. “Pretty electric arm,” Cash said. “Kind of whippy with the fastball. Just hope that the messaging, he receives it well. I think there’s little things — before we acquired him, as we were talking — we feel (coaches Kyle Snyder and Stan Boroski) can help him with. But there’s no denying that he’s got a good fastball, he’s got a good slider, evident by not throwing in five or six days and coming out throwing 97 mph.” Miscellany Brandon Lowe was the DH and had two hits, snapping an 0-for-16 skid. ... Ryan Yarbrough, sidelined since the start of the season with groin tightness, did well Tuesday in throwing off the mound for the first time and will make a rehab start for Triple-A Durham this weekend. ... Reliever Tyler Zombro will be activated Wednesday by Durham, and his first appearance will complete his remarkable comeback from traumatic injuries and brain surgery after being hit in the head by a line drive June 3. ... Infielder/outfielder Vidal Brujan returned to the Bulls lineup Tuesday for his first action since April 6, having been sidelined by knee soreness. ... First-pitch temperature Tuesday was 42 degrees. The forecast for Wednesday night’s series finale is bad, with a 90 percent chance of rain and 20-30 mph winds with higher gusts possible. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.