TAMPA — After the Lightning had one of their most dramatic wins of the season Thursday night, coach Jon Cooper smiled at the postgame podium, waxing poetic about the pride he had in his team’s resilience. “You never know what’s going to happen on any given night,” Cooper said. “Sports is live theater. There’s no retakes. It’s just awesome to be a part of.” The Lightning’s 4-3 overtime win over the Ducks had its share of plot twists, one of the last being the two-time defending Stanley Cup champions clinching a playoff spot for the fifth straight season. The Lightning players saw star goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy pulled after he allowed two goals over 22 seconds in the second period for a 3-2 Ducks lead. Then they got the tying goal in the final seconds of regulation from Nikita Kucherov with an extra attacker on the ice. Then Anthony Cirelli’s goal 1:58 into overtime won it after an overtime goal by Alex Killorn was waved off for offside. “We didn’t quit on ourselves, and we changed the way we played when we were down like that,” defenseman Ryan McDonagh said. “We talked that the tying goal might come in the first minute or the last minutes. (Thursday) it was last minute. “All around, everybody kind of chipped in in their own way, and it’s just good to have that X next to our name (in the standings indicating a playoff team).” With the win and the Bruins losing to the Senators, the Lightning hold a three-point lead over Boston, 98 points to 95, for third place in the Atlantic Division and trail Toronto (102 points) by four points for second with eight games remaining for all three teams. “When you look at the standings, I think we figured we were going to probably get in (to the playoffs) at some point,” said Killorn, who assisted on Cirelli’s winner, scored in the first period to put the Lightning up 2-0 and had two goals in all reversed on offside calls. “But to get in now, there’s some real important points on the line.” Cooper rarely pulls his goalies mid game — Vasilevskiy hadn’t been yanked in the regular season since he allowed six goals in two periods in a 7-4 loss to Ottawa on March 13, 2018 — but said he didn’t want his team losing confidence after Anaheim scored the two quick goals on deflections midway through the second. “A lot of different things go into it,” Cooper said. “But for (Vasilevskiy), if you’re getting (pulled) once every three years, I hope the next time it happens … if it does, is three years from now.” Players took Vasilevskiy’s exit as a message to get their game straight. “It sent a message definitely that we need to be sharper, need to be better,” McDonagh said. “It was really not on (Vasilevskiy). You leave guys open in front (of the net) and let them have deflections, those are the ones that are pretty much unstoppable for a goalie. It got away from us there for a bit, and (the Ducks) made us pay. “I think we responded the right way and got back to our kind of our roots there in the beginning of the season when we were kind of finding ways (to win). And that’s the way it’s going to be here down the stretch and in the playoffs.” Backup goaltender Brian Elliott kept the Lightning in the game, stopping all 13 shots he faced in 29:39 of work, including denying forward Troy Terry on a breakaway after Terry scored the second of the Ducks’ quick goals. Vasilevskiy had 10 saves on 13 shots. The Lightning responded in the last eight minutes of the game, tilting the ice in their favor. And in a 6-on-5 situation with an empty net, Kucherov — who had a team-high eight shot attempts — sent the game to overtime with a wrister from above the circles with 12.3 seconds left in regulation. Moments after the Lightning had clinched a postseason berth by way of the Islanders’ loss to the Penguins, Killorn scored 61 seconds into overtime. But after a lengthy review, the play was ruled offside. Less than a minute later, Killorn found Cirelli parked by the far post, and Cirelli wristed a shot into the back of the net. “It’s hard, especially when we’ve won a couple of Cups and there’s ample opportunity for guys to take a breath and say OK,” Cooper said of the team clinching their eighth playoff berth in nine years. “But they haven’t. They keep pushing forward and just do it different ways. “You never know what will happen (in the postseason). We’re proof of that. I told them we backed in (to the playoffs) because Pittsburgh won before we won, so we had a little chuckle about that.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.