Turnovers and penalties proved too costly once again for the Lightning in a 4-3 loss to the Capitals on Wednesday night in Washington. The loss was the Lightning’s third straight. This is the fifth three-game losing streak of the season for Tampa Bay. “Feels like every mistake now is ending up in the back of our net, so it’s tough not to get frustrated,” Steven Stamkos said. “But we have to continue to work our way through it. We have a lot of veteran leadership on this team that we know we can work our way out of it.” With the loss, the Lightning (43-20-7) dropped to fourth in the Atlantic Division and into a wild-card spot with 93 points behind Boston (44-21-5). The Bruins also have 93 points but hold the tiebreak with more regulation wins. Florida (49-15-6) leads the division with 104 points, having clinched a postseason spot Sunday, and Toronto (45-19-6) is second at 96. The Lightning face the Bruins on Friday in what coach Jon Cooper called a pivotal game after letting games against Toronto on Monday and Washington slip away. “The boys have played a lot of hockey over the last couple of years and especially with these last two months,” Cooper said. “We’ve asked a lot of them, but this is where sometimes it becomes a little bit more than the physical part of it. It’s the mental part, so it tests you just as much, and you have to fight through it, so that’s what we’re doing.” Here are three things we learned from Wednesday’s game: Early pressure from Nikita Kucherov pays off Nikita Kucherov opened the scoring for the Lightning with them trailing 2-0 with just under nine minutes gone in the game. Center Brayden Point shoveled the puck out of the corner to defenseman Victor Hedman at the blue line. Hedman kept the puck in the zone by backhanding it out into the top of the slot, where Kucherov stepped in and swung a shot on goalie Ilya Samsonov. With the goal, Kucherov extended his point streak to six games, a season high for him. He had a game-high three shots on goal by the end of the period. He had just one more shot on goal the rest of the night, in the third period. Nick Paul continues to impress Forward Nick Paul netted his second goal with the Lightning since his March 20 trade from Ottawa. In the first period, defenseman Jan Rutta battled for the puck in the neutral zone, shuffling it out to Stamkos, who was standing along the blue line. Stamkos quickly put the puck out into the open ice before Washington forward Tom Wilson and defenseman Nick Jensen sandwiched the captain along the glass. Paul then intercepted the puck, taking it to the top of the slot before firing off a shot toward Samsonov. The shot slipped past Samsonov, cutting the Lightning’s deficit to 3-2 with 3:29 remaining in the first. The goal was Paul’s 13th of the season and his sixth point since joining Tampa Bay. “I think having a role here is good,” Paul said. “I know exactly what I need to do. I’ve talked to coaches, know what kind of game I need to play, and I just have to play to the best of my ability.”  Forward lines in a blender again With the Lightning’s recent rut, Cooper and his staff changed the lines at Tuesday’s practice. They kept those lines to start Wednesday’s game. Ondrej Palat moved up to the top line with Point and Kucherov, sending Stamkos to the second line with Brandon Hagel and Ross Colton. The lines shifted from Monday’s 6-2 loss against Toronto, which saw Stamkos on the top line with Point and Kucherov. Anthony Cirelli and Alex Killorn skated alongside Paul instead of Palat on the third line against the Capitals. Later in the game, trailing by two goals in the third period, Hagel and Paul switched lines. Meanwhile, the “school bus” line of Bellemare, Pat Maroon and Corey Perry remained intact.  Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.