The daily headlines regularly focus on the struggle to find affordable housing throughout Tampa Bay or on efforts to make our communities more resilient to stronger storms and higher sea levels. In fact, we can’t talk about one of these challenges without the other. We need more homes our residents can afford, but housing also has to be sustainable and more resilient to changes in our weather. We have to reinforce existing homes and commercial buildings and build new ones that meet stronger standards, but we can’t price residents and business owners out of their own neighborhoods. The bottom line: Efforts to maintain and create housing that is affordable and climate-resilient should be blended together. The Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council, local governments and stakeholders involved in the Regional Resiliency Coalition are meeting May 6 to discuss the best strategies to achieve that goal. The Resilience and Energy Assessment of Communities and Housing (REACH) conference is another example of Tampa Bay coming together to meet the biggest challenges that affect our entire region. Stronger storms, higher sea levels and rising temperatures don’t follow city and county boundaries. Neither do rising housing prices and the lack of affordable housing. That’s why it’s so important for us to come together to discuss the best-building practices, the smartest public policies and the coordination of our efforts. At the REACH conference, leaders will unveil a new analysis of flood risks to affordable housing. We will discuss new funding opportunities, review new affordable housing developments that showcase resilient building techniques, and hear from innovative housing developers who have succeeded in creating more affordable communities. Housing affordability and resiliency to changes in climate are not new issues. In my real estate business, I have been fighting for long-term sustainability of our coastal neighborhoods at the federal level for more than a decade. As a member of the St. Petersburg City Council, I joined my colleagues in allocating money from the Penny for Pinellas for affordable housing just as the county has done. But Tampa Bay residents know there is a greater urgency now to address the twin threats of housing affordability and climate change. We have one of the nation’s hottest housing markets, and we are near the top for rising rents. Our vulnerability to flooding from stronger storms is greater than ever. In St. Petersburg, we are simultaneously addressing both crises in an equitable manner and ensuring underserved neighborhoods are not left behind. We have allocated 76 percent of our American Rescue Plan federal dollars to sustainable affordable and workforce housing, and we have allocated the rest to social health and equity programs. We hope this will be a model for other local governments. The REACH conference is all about exploring creative options and striking appropriate balances. Choosing between housing affordability and resiliency is not an option. We have to do both. Brandi Gabbard is the vice chair of the St. Petersburg City Council and chair of the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council.