ST. PETERSBURG — For Rays left-hander Shane McClanahan, it began like a nightmare. Two pitches and a one-run deficit. Nine pitches and already down two runs. By the end of Sunday afternoon, it was a masterpiece. McClanahan registered his first victory of the season when the Rays defeated the Red Sox 5-2 before 20,993 fans at Tropicana Field, allowing them to win the three-game series against their American League East rival. But in the bigger picture, it became one of the finest outings of McClanahan’s brief major-league career. The USF product retired 20 of his last 22 batters. He went through the Red Sox order three times, with 64 strikes on 86 pitches (meaning he threw a total of just 22 balls to 27 batters). He walked none — getting to ball three only once — and struck out seven. “It’s not fun facing guys like him,” Rays centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier said. “But from my vantage point in center field, I’m lucky to watch that. There’s probably not many big-league pitchers out there who have taken bigger steps forward than what he has last year to this year. “And as he gets older and more experienced and more confident, the better he’s going to get. And that’s scary.” McClanahan, the Rays’ opening-day starter, is living up to the billing. “Those terms get thrown around quite a bit — opening-day (starter), ace,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “When Shane fills up the strike zone, he’s going deep into ballgames and giving us a chance to win. His stuff is kind of second to none.” Said McClanahan, “I think once you start pitching for accolades and recognition, that’s when (you are) playing for the wrong things. Every time I go out there, I just want to help this team win. Whether that’s four innings, seven innings, anything between, nine, whatever I’ve got to do to help the team win. Success is a byproduct of that, I think.” It was exactly what the Rays needed after Saturday’s crazy 10-inning victory, when they used seven pitchers on a bullpen day. “I didn’t want the bullpen to come in at all (Sunday),” McClanahan said. “They’ve been busting their butts all season for us. That bullpen definitely needs a little rest. It was a lot of pitchers (Saturday), so I didn’t really think I had the luxury of maybe not having my best stuff or my best outing.” But it did not start well for McClanahan. The Red Sox, held hitless through Saturday’s first nine innings, collected four hits on McClanahan’s first nine pitches and led 2-0. Indeed, McClanahan trailed after his first two pitches — a slicing double by Trevor Story, then an RBI single by Kike Hernandez. “That’s just kind of how baseball is,” McClanahan said. “Sometimes, you’re going to get beat. I think it was two pitches and one run. That’s just how it is sometimes. Just got to keep attacking. Don’t change anything. Sooner or later, those (balls in play) are going to find people.” After working out of the first inning, McClanahan found his rhythm — and then some — before the Rays’ offense finally awoke. The Rays were baffled by former teammate Rich Hill, the crafty left-hander who assembled four shutout innings. Hill threw 62 pitches — with his fastball topping out at 87 mph — and 24 of them were off-speed offerings at 71 mph or slower. Once Hill was lifted, the Rays went to work. Red Sox right-hander Phillips Valdez was lost from the beginning, hitting two batters and walking another of the four he faced in the fifth inning. Ryan Brasier was summoned to snuff out a bases-loaded, one-out situation, but pinch-hitter Ji-Man Choi touched him for a game-tying, two-run double off the left-field wall. Manuel Margot followed with an RBI grounder, giving the Rays their first lead. In the sixth, with runners on second and third, the first offering from Red Sox reliever Jake Diekman was a wild pitch, scoring Kiermaier from third base. Hoping to catch Diekman napping, Randy Arozarena tried to score all the way from second base, but Diekman was alerted by catcher Christian Vazquez. Diekman whirled behind the plate and tagged out Arozarena. Yandy Diaz extended the Rays’ lead to 5-2 with a one-out homer in the seventh. By then, McClanahan’s day was done, leaving it to relievers Colin Poche and Ryan Thompson to preserve. The Rays are off Monday before continuing their homestand Tuesday night against the Seattle Mariners. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.