We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “Why The Past 10 Years Of American Life Have Been So Uniquely Stupid,” by Jonathan Haidt in The Atlantic at bit.ly/3veGDb1. The context, from the author, a social psychologist who studies emotion, morality and politics: The story of Babel is the best metaphor I have found for what happened to America in the 2010s, and for the fractured country we now inhabit. ... It’s been clear for quite a while now that red America and blue America are becoming like two different countries claiming the same territory, with two different versions of the Constitution, economics and American history. The excerpt: (A decade ago), the newly tweaked (social media) platforms were almost perfectly designed to bring out our most moralistic and least reflective selves. The volume of outrage was shocking. It was just this kind of twitchy and explosive spread of anger that James Madison had tried to protect us from as he was drafting the U.S. Constitution. The Framers of the Constitution were excellent social psychologists. They knew that democracy had an Achilles’ heel because it depended on the collective judgment of the people, and democratic communities are subject to “the turbulency and weakness of unruly passions.” The key to designing a sustainable republic, therefore, was to build in mechanisms to slow things down, cool passions, require compromise, and give leaders some insulation from the mania of the moment while still holding them accountable to the people periodically, on Election Day. From “America’s Hypocrisy Over Ukraine and “Spheres of Influence,” by Katrina vanden Heuvel in The Nation at bit.ly/3Kzg9Yl. The context, from the author: The principle of each country’s right to determine its own foreign policy clearly does not apply in the Western Hemisphere. The excerpt: Hypocrisy is common in international relations. The Russians and Chinese, for example, constantly invoke international law, even as they trample it when they deem it necessary. The United States champions a “rules-based order,” in which we make the rules and hold ourselves exempt from them when desirable. The “principle” of respecting nations and their right to choose their own path is a good one. The countries of our own hemisphere wish we would practice it as well as preach it. From “The Stronger the Welfare State, the Freer the People,” by Kelly McKowen in Jacobin at bit.ly/3uDqvAP. The context, from the author: The countries with the world’s best welfare states deliver universal benefits that emancipate people from the whims of the labor market. And those welfare states were won through class struggle. The excerpt: The Norwegian state is not the American state, nor is a Norwegian family an American family. What these things mean, what an individual owes to them, and what they owe to the individual when times are tough differs from place to place, from regime to regime. This suggests that “welfare reform” is a far more expansive — and fundamental — project than just tinkering with benefits and services. It has the potential to remake the institutional environment within which we live, and in doing so, remake our very understanding of what the state (or family or firm) is and what it is for. FROM THE RIGHT From “Was Benjamin Franklin a Conservative?” by Kyle Smith in The National Review at bit.ly/3xrvKFO. The context, from the author: Trying to stamp today’s political labels on historical figures who were dealing with very different questions is a bit of a fool’s errand, but it’s an intriguing exercise. The excerpt: Liberalism today largely focuses on personal liberation — with one or two telling exceptions. Conservatism is now, and I would argue always has been, much more attached to personal boundaries and limits. As a person, Franklin defined himself via his famous 13 virtues, which he developed when he was 20. Mostly they are a list of proscriptions and calls for self-restraint. Temperance (in food and drink), moderation, silence, order, frugality, humility, and chastity all appear on the list. I wouldn’t call these goals foreign to today’s Left, but if you heard someone call these qualities vitally important, and learned additionally that the speaker was actually keeping a daily record that he would blot whenever he failed to live up to his own standards, you would assume you were dealing with a conservative. From “What’s Democracy to You?” by Theodore R. Johnson in The Bulwark at bit.ly/3JxYLBW. The context, from the author: Americans’ perceptions of democracy, patriotism and other terms of civic language vary based on race and party. The excerpt: (In a recent poll), only 61 percent of the respondents said they view democracy positively, while more than a third view it neutrally or negatively. ... These results suggest that although Americans talk about democracy like it’s a value, many perceive it as little more than a tool — like a gun or a hammer, its goodness or badness is mostly connected to our perception of who is using it and for what purpose. Those who have benefited the most from its employment are more likely to have positive impressions of it while those who feel it has been used against them or to subjugate them are less likely to see it as inherently good. In this way, when democracy is perceived to be less an expression of values and ideals and more an object to be wielded on behalf of some at the expense of others, the doomsday predictions become all the more understandable. From “While Everyone Else Is Kicking Themselves For Voting For Biden, College-Educated Women Are Doubling Down,” by Joy Pullmann in The Federalist at bit.ly/3Ec4nRt. The context, from the author: Why are lots of men willing to admit that they were wrong in 2020, while college-educated women are doubling down? The excerpt: If college-educated women admit they were wrong about Trump and Biden in 2020, where does it stop? Once “fierce women” admit they could be wrong about something so big as their selection of the president of the formerly free world, that opens the door for being wrong about other big things that contradict their conception of always being right to follow their feelings. Those could include questions like: Does feminism make women unhappy?