ST. PETERSBURG — Brett Phillips said he and a couple of Rays were talking the other day about what the perfectly created player would look like. Phillips didn’t have to search far for the answer, pointing to the adjacent locker. “I said Josh Lowe,” Phillips said. " I mean, he’s 6-4, handsome, good body, right?” The rookie outfielder does indeed look the part. Better for the Rays, Lowe has the talent to play it — with enough promise that they were quick not only to promote him to the majors after trading Austin Meadows near the end of spring training, but to give Lowe a spot in the lineup. While he has shown flashes of his skills over the first four games, what has impressed the Rays most about Lowe is the patience and maturity he has shown while navigating the challenges of unfamiliar pitchers and the pressure to produce. “He’s been awesome,” Phillips said. “It’s been really cool to get to know him. He’s got a bright future. We saw what he did in Triple-A (last year with a 20-20 season and team MVP honors at Durham), and I’m hoping it translates — for his sake and the team’s sake — here at the big-league level. “As of now, he’s looked like he’s been here before. And from the emotion standpoint, that’s impressive to see how he’s been able to operate.” Lowe, 24, said the key is that he is comfortable with where and who he is. It is a product of many elements: a two-day cameo in the majors last season, knowing most of his current teammates from the minors, the Rays’ culture and relaxed clubhouse atmosphere, and having an older brother and friends who preceded him to the majors and provided advice. Also, how he views his opportunity. “I think once you finally take that deep breath and realize that you’re in the big leagues, you kind of relax,” Lowe said. “It’s still the same game I’ve been playing since I’ve been a little kid — see the ball, hit the ball, catch the ball and run the bases.” If the whirlwind week of being sent to Durham, recalled and then asked to step in for Meadows — who led the team with 33 homers during his 2019 All-Star season and 106 RBIs last year — created any pressure to produce right away, Lowe doesn’t acknowledge it. Confidence is a key part of his makeup. “I don’t think it’s necessary for people to go out and try and prove they can do everything on one day,” he said. “It’s a really long year. Over the course of the season, I’m going to prove it out to everybody. I’m just excited for the rest of the year and to win a lot more games.” Though Lowe was only 2-for-13 (.154) through the Rays’ first four games, his plate discipline — leading to three walks and a team-high 5.25 pitches seen per plate appearance — has caught the eye of his teammates and bosses. “Not expanding the zone swinging at balls in the dirt, fouling off tough pitches, it’s really impressive to see a guy like that be so mature in his approach,” second baseman Brandon Lowe (no relation) said. Furthermore, hitting coach Chad Mottola said, Josh Lowe is doing it against more-experienced pitchers that he hasn’t seen before. “That’s the impressive part to me,” Mottola said. “You can see him throttling back a little bit from his normal approach to have a quality at-bat rather than just waving at pitches. So he’s doing a little bit of information-gathering both of himself, and then along with all these new arms.” Lowe doesn’t think he’s doing anything noteworthy, just trying to help himself get to a better pitch to hit even if he is behind in the count, and aid his teammates by exposing a pitcher’s full repertoire. That, too, is special. “He’s not sped up,” Mottola said. “That’s been good. His heartbeat’s right. And the confidence is there.” As for the tools and talent? “He has reason to be confident.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.