Careful what you wish for The gap between perceptions and reality | Column, April 28 Columnist Cal Thomas is floating ideas for a better-informed electorate, writing that “only when it comes to voting can someone cast a ballot with no knowledge, or incorrect knowledge, about the candidates and issues.” What if only informed voters were allowed to vote? In that case many — if not most — right-wing news diehards would not be able to pass the test between perception and reality and therefore would be ineligible to cast a ballot. I believe that would include former President Donald Trump. Brian Valsavage, St. Petersburg I will start for the Bucs Disney bout ignites donors | April 27 Both wanna-be, marijuana governor Nikki Fried and flip-flopping Charlie Christ believe they have a shot at beating Gov. Ron DeSantis in the race to become governor of Florida. Why not? So, I think I will challenge Tom Brady to become starting quarterback of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Makes no difference that he is the GOAT and I am in my 70s, having never played organized football at any level. Larry Hatton, Valrico A real absentee voter Crist relies heavily on pandemic proxy voting rule as he runs for governor | April 27 U.S. Rep. Charlie Crist has voted by proxy 107 times over three months, refusing to go to Washington after being elected to go Washington, citing the national health emergency of COVID and invoking House rules. However, he has no problem during this alleged national emergency traveling throughout Florida to campaign for governor. I guess that even the politician I call “Mr. Opportunity” does not want to leave the free state of Florida to do his job. John Spengler, Spring Hill Sign me up DeSantis signs controversial voting bill, creates election crimes office | April 25 Just wondering how I can get one of the 25 jobs in the Office of Election Crimes and Security office created by the governor? Do I need qualifications or just connections? Qualifications are usually not a requirement for jobs that are created with no true reason for their existence. John Robbins, Tampa Better off? Really? What could have been | Letter, April 27 Regarding the letter that included the phrase “the man I believe to be the worst president in modern times,” referring to Donald Trump, I have to ask: Is the country better off now than it was 15 months ago? I don’t know how anyone can believe it is. Bob Butler, Tampa