In his years presiding over Equality Florida’s annual St. Pete Gala, Todd Richardson has seen events drowned out by attendees’ enthusiasm. But when Rose Walton took the stage in 2015 to receive a Lifetime Achievement Award, nearly 600 people inside the Mahaffey Theater fell silent. “They knew the importance of listening to what Rose had to say,” said Richardson, the LGBTQ-rights organization’s Pinellas Development Director. “It was just total respect.” Walton died earlier this month at her Sunset Beach home. She was 85. A pioneering figure in HIV/AIDS care and advocacy, Walton did much of her work in New York. At a time when Long Island had the highest suburban HIV rate in the country, Walton founded New York’s first AIDS education and resource center. Amid vicious homophobia and vitriol directed at AIDS patients, caregivers and gay people during the AIDS crisis, she trained healthcare workers and co-chaired the hundreds-strong East End Gay Organization. She was such an authority on the epidemic that she testified before Congress and was interviewed by national media outlets. Determining how many people Walton’s work helped is impossible, but Marjorie Sherwin, her wife and partner of 47 years, said it’s at least “in the thousands.” Walton lived in Pinellas County through the 1970s, until she moved to Long Island to work at Stony Brook University and live with Sherwin. The two maintained Walton’s Sunset Beach duplex, and when Walton retired in the mid-1990s, she moved back full time, with Sherwin following soon after. She continued her LBGTQ advocacy work until her death, even after injuries and multiple sclerosis left her unable to walk. She spent her last days there, surrounded by people she loved, Sherwin said. Three days before her death, Sherwin asked if she wanted to have a party. Walton, who often expressed herself with her eyes, simply raised her brows. Walton spent her childhood in Oak Hill, West Virginia, where she was raised by her grandparents. Her grandmother, Sherwin said, told her that “God is first, everyone else is second, you’re third.” “She didn’t pick up the God part,” Sherwin said, but she always put everyone else first. She was no pushover, though. The ire and bigotry around the AIDS crisis, and the death that hung over it, energized her, Sherwin said. “She could tell you to go to hell,” Sherwin said, “and you would go but you’d say, ‘She said that so nicely.’” There was the time Walton was called to the room of a dying young man. A priest stood over him, talking about the man’s “sins.” Walton locked eyes with him and mouthed, “Get out.” There was the county legislative meeting, where Walton, speaking in support of an anti-discrimination measure, was met by a crowd of anti-gay protesters. They screamed that God hated her. “My grandmother wouldn’t call any of you Christians,” she told them. And there was a story Walton told Sherwin about her time teaching at what was then St. Petersburg Junior College, not long after the Florida Legislative Investigation Committee persecuted gay educators. During an interview for an administrative position, Walton was asked what she would do if she learned an employee was gay: Would she fire them? She walked out of the interview. Walton — who had a master’s degree from Peabody College (now part of Vanderbilt University) and a doctorate from Nova Southeastern University — had moved to Florida in the late 1960s, Sherwin said. In 1975, Sherwin visited Tampa Bay on vacation and asked a friend if she knew anyone who’d like to have dinner. The friend, who worked at St. Petersburg Junior College, had someone in mind. “And that was Rose,” Sherwin said. Sherwin learned all the details that made up Walton. How, whenever she needed to talk through a plan or a problem, she did it while solving a jigsaw puzzle. How her love of fishing led her to discover the empty Sunset Beach plot where she’d build her home — where she insisted on overseeing both initial construction and a later remodel. How she was always sure, until the end, that she would walk again. The secret to a love story that spanned nearly a half-century? “Everybody would ask me that question, and I’d go, ‘Because of Rose,’” Sherwin said. “I can’t even explain, but we really did — we absolutely, truly loved each other.” In 2017, Walton and Sherwin were featured in a Tampa Bay Times photo project about great love stories. Sherwin told the photographer she thought they were lucky. “We’re not lucky,” Walton responded. “It’s not luck. It’s communication. It’s respect. It’s love.” It was a postscript to an earlier media appearance: In 1990, a Time magazine feature highlighted “America’s invisible women,” lesbians. Walton and Sherwin were one of a few couples to agree to be named for the story, and they were the only ones who agreed to be photographed. “I was always a civil rights person,” Walton told Time. “That doesn’t mean I’ve worn a banner or carried a sign. I’ve simply lived my life.”