PORT CHARLOTTE — Rays manager Kevin Cash is confident both catcher Mike Zunino and outfielder/DH Austin Meadows will be over recent injuries and ready for Friday’s season opener. Zunino, who had a sore shoulder last week, was certain he would be good to go, though he will be on limited duty the first few weeks of the season. Meadows, who left Sunday’s game with tightness in both quads, was not as sure of his status. Meadows said he was encouraged that he “felt better” than he thought he would and hoped taking Monday off from any activity would help. He is “penciled in” to get at-bats Tuesday when Chris Mazza throws in a simulated game, and he may know more then about his status for Friday. “I don’t think it’s out of the question that it’s definitely doable, especially feeling good (Monday)...” he said. “If I felt worse, then I don’t think we’d be talking about opening day. But I feel good, better than expected for myself. So yeah, we’ll see where we’re at.” Zunino had DH’d three straight games and did some throwing drills Saturday and Sunday, then caught five innings Monday, while hitting his third spring homer, with no issues. He was confident the rest and cortisone shot did him well. “I threw to bases (Sunday), stretched it out the day before, was really encouraged with how it felt,” he said. “Figured (Monday) I wouldn’t have any issues. In between innings, it felt great.” With Zunino having been sore, the Rays playing 13 straight days to start the season and the potential for cold weather during their six-day trip to Chicago, he and Francisco Mejia will share duties on close to an alternating basis. “We’re probably going to have a pretty healthy rotation the first couple weeks,” Cash said, with Zunino potentially getting some DH days. Pitching in Josh Fleming doesn’t appear to have a spot in the rotation, which seems to set up featuring Shane McClanahan, Drew Rasmussen, Corey Kluber, Luis Patino and Ryan Yarbrough. But the lefty is making a case for a multi-inning job in the bullpen, and he earned praise from Cash after working 3 2/3 innings on 41 pitches in the 8-2 loss to Atlanta. “Just here to help the team win games,” Fleming said. “Just ready to hear what they tell me and I’ll go do it.” … Lefty Colin Poche, also competing for a bullpen spot, allowed a hit and a walk in his inning. Miscellany Right-handed reliever David McKay, who had been reassigned to minor-league camp, was assigned to the Yankees and being added to their 40-man roster. The Rays get no return. ... With Monday’s crowd of 2,104, the Rays (6-9-2) drew 24,150 for nine home spring games, averaging 2,683. … Braves manager Brian Snitker said minor-league pitcher Justin Yeager was found by the umpires to have a sticky substance on his pitching hand, which he said was sunscreen; under regular-season rules he would have been ejected. … Though Wander Franco has been hitting third recently, Cash still plans for him to be in the No. 2 spot for the regular season. … Calvin Faucher is slated to be the opener when Triple-A Durham opens its season Tuesday at Nashville. … Cash gave some players off Tuesday so they could get settled in the Tampa Bay area and rejoin the team for Wednesday’s exhibition against the Phillies. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.