CHICAGO — Once the Rays knew they were going to play Wednesday’s game — with first pitch moved up 70 minutes and the forecast of heavy rain seemingly holding off — they had a simple goal. “Oh yeah, there’s no doubt,’’ manager Kevin Cash said. “Get runs and then get through the fifth inning. (That’s what) it kind of felt like.’’ The Rays did both. A four-run first inning gave them the lead they wanted over the Cubs and positioned them for the 8-2 win they needed as the game was paused when the rain got heavy midway through the sixth and, an hour later, called off and deemed official. All of which made for a good ending to a long week in Chicago that started with losses in three of the first four games and ended with back-to-back wins. “I think that’s what we needed,’’ catcher Francisco Mejia said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “We needed to come out here and win a couple games and win the series.’’ Bigger picture, they got through a vexing season-opening stretch of 13 straight games at 7-6 and headed home feeling they’re looking more like themselves after a stretch of losing five of six. “We needed to play better baseball the way it started out, and happy with the way the guys bounced back,’’ Cash said. “So very encouraged by that. (Wednesday) was a good performance. I know the game was cut short, but saying that, we did a lot of good things early on.’’ Having scored only six runs total in the opening innings of their first 12 games, the four the Rays posted Wednesday — matching their season most for any frame — was a huge boost. “Our job was to attack early because we didn’t know if we were going to be able to finish the game,’’ said Mejia, who did just that with a two-run homer. Randy Arozarena, starting to warm up at the plate, got them started off Marcus Stroman by doubling in Brandon Lowe. Arozarena then came home on an errant throw after stealing third. Mejia’s homer made it 4-0, and the Rays added a fifth run in the second on Wander Franco’s double. “We were so good at times last year of scoring early, scoring first, putting pressure on teams,’' Cash said. “It’s nice to see us do that certainly today.’’ The Cubs got a couple of runs back in the third against inefficient Rays starter Drew Rasmussen, who lasted only three innings, as he needed 79 pitches to get the nine outs. “Competed well, made big pitches when he needed to, bent a little bit but didn’t break,’' Cash said. Jalen Beeks worked the final two innings for the win. The Rays offense, showing some signs of its potential, kept rolling. Rookie Josh Lowe tripled in Arozarena, and Mejia doubled in Lowe. Kevin Kiermaier, who hadn’t done much in the first two games of the reunion series with brother Dan — the Cubs’ heads groundskeeper — doubled in Mejia. “We’re a really good hitting group,’' Josh Lowe said. “Just kind of feeding off each other, everybody’s energy when you go up to the plate. Hitting’s contagious, and we’re ready to keep this thing going.’' The rain that had been falling for several innings got heavier in the top of the sixth, and once the Rays made three outs, the umpires had seen enough. Cash said it was the right call to stop the game as well as a wise decision earlier — made after conversations among team executives after the Cubs initially didn’t want to change the start time — to move up first pitch to 5:30 Chicago time. Had the game been postponed, the Rays most likely would have had to return to Chicago on a previously scheduled off-day. Instead, the Rays went home happy. “We’re slowly but surely getting guys locked in,’’ Kiermaier said. “Had some tough games we lost there versus the White Sox and even the first game here, but we finished it off the right way. It’ll be a good flight back home, and we’ll all be excited to drive to the Trop come again Friday, for sure.’’ • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.