DADE CITY — Marilyn Hunter still remembers the smell of raw sewage that was ever-present during her childhood in the 1960s. It wafted from the jutting silos of the sewage treatment plant across from her home and encased her neighborhood in the stench of human waste. When the Dade City Wastewater Treatment Plant was commissioned about 70 years ago, officials opted to build it smack in the middle of the then-growing Black neighborhood known as Mickens-Harper. In the decades since, the massive structure that sits amid single-family homes and a school baseball field has remained a pungent reminder to residents like Hunter of some of the historic disregard local governments held for minority communities. After agreeing a decade ago that the plant should be torn down, Dade City’s government is finally poised to act, thanks to a recent influx of state and federal money. Officials hope to remove the facility from the neighborhood by 2026, righting what many on the Dade City Commission and in the community have long viewed as a racial and environmental injustice. The new facility will be constructed in a rural, sparsely populated part of the county about a mile southeast from the current plant. “We’ve been trying to get (the city) to do something about that sewer for as long as I’ve lived,” Hunter said. “It’s about time. It’s past time.” Across the tracks The Mickens-Harper neighborhood was established in the late 1940s — a partial product of the post-war civil rights movement that burgeoned when Black veterans returned from World War II. In 1949, seeking better housing conditions for Black residents, the Negro Civic Committee of Dade City purchased land for the neighborhood’s development for $2,000, according to a city report. Two members of the committee, Odell Mickens, a teacher, and James Harper, a funeral director, headed negotiations with local officials. Black professionals constructed more than 50 homes in the new development off of Martin Luther King Boulevard, across the train tracks from Dade City’s main street. But the wastewater treatment facility went up soon after, and all of Dade City’s sewage began flowing toward Mickens-Harper. Hunter said it’s a story that’s all too familiar. “If you want to find the Black community, go across the railroad tracks. And once you’re across the tracks, you’ll almost always find a sewer plant somewhere,” she said. Rev. Jesse McClendon, who grew up down the street from Hunter and about 100 feet from the sewage plant, said the facility’s placement was a product of racism and a sign of disrespect to the community. What was worse, McClendon said, is that construction didn’t stop in the 1950s. As Dade City grew, the sewage plant did, too. Alarms sounded at night, waking neighborhood children, and 18-wheel trucks sped down small residential streets. Residents complained to the city, but it felt like there was little hope, McClendon said. Then came a boiling point in 2011, when city officials considered expanding the facility onto the neighborhood’s baseball field. “People really didn’t like that,” McClendon said. “That was the final straw.” Residents cried out that it was an issue of environmental and social justice. The Dade City Commission listened. In December 2011, three out of five commissioners voted to kill the expansion in the Mickens-Harper neighborhood. The commission also set up a committee, led by then-city manager Billy Poe and community development coordinator Mike Sherman, to have Mickens-Harper residents and government employees work together toward neighborhood improvements. The committee established a list of priorities for neighborhood projects, including revamping local parks, and brought requests to the commission under newly elected Mayor Camille Hernandez. Relocating the sewage facility was on that list. McClendon, who served as chairperson of the committee, said it was the first time he felt he had been able to truly engage with his government. “I definitely give praise to the mayor, city manager and Mike Sherman,” McClendon said. “They took a lot of heat, but we were heard.” One foot in front of the other Now, more than a decade after the City Commission began hearing residents, plans to relocate the plant are coming to fruition. City manager Leslie Porter said officials estimated relocating the plant would cost about $41 million. The city had to prove to state and federal officials that the existing plant was at capacity and the money was necessary. “The way the economy has been and growth being so stagnant for more than a decade, we were just in a holding pattern,” Porter said. But growth has come to the small Pasco town, as has money for a more up-to-date wastewater plant in a more rural part of the city. In the recent trillion-dollar federal budget bill, U.S. Rep. Gus Bilirakis, R-Palm Harbor, earmarked $1.75 million for the project. And in the particularly flush budget Gov. Ron DeSantis is poised to sign, $35 million is set aside for the relocation effort, Porter said. For Mayor Hernandez, the funding represents a landmark moment in her time serving the city. She was one of the city commissioners who in 2011 voted against expanding the plant onto the baseball field. “This is something that we needed to do a long time ago, even before all this growth and development happened in Dade City,” Hernandez said, adding that the plant never should have been built in the neighborhood in the first place. “We all at the end of the day look at that wastewater treatment plant and understand the significance of what it has done to that community.” For Dolores Redmon, whose backyard borders the plant, the removal of the facility would mark a small step in the right direction for her community, and the realization of the efforts of community organizers who she said have been fighting for justice for the neighborhood for decades. But Redmon said the efforts to lift up Mickens-Harper can’t stop there. “We’re too far into the 2000s to be dealing with 1950s issues,” Redmon said. “So, what’s next?”