The Tampa Museum of Art just got $25 million closer to its planned expansion, thanks to a donation in that amount from Dick Corbett, CEO and president of Tampa-based real estate investment firm Concorde Companies. It’s the largest donation made toward the museum’s Centennial Capital Campaign for expansion. The campaign launched in 2020 in celebration of the institution’s 100th anniversary. “This extraordinary gift to the museum contributes a historic $25 million cash gift to our campaign for the museum’s expansion,” Michael Tomor, Ph.D., the Penny and Jeff Vinik Executive Director of the Tampa Museum of Art, said in a news release. Tomor added that the gift makes history in Florida’s art community because “it constitutes the single largest private donation ever made to a public art museum and art education center in this state.” He noted that although there have been other large donations made to museums in Florida, those have been a combination of cash and collections of art. “This generous donation is unique because it is a standalone cash contribution to our capital campaign,” Tomor explained. The gift will allow the growth of the museum’s overall area from 69,000 to 120,000 square feet and expand its exhibition and collections space from 14,800 square feet to 43,000 square feet. He added that it will more than triple available event space. The expansion includes a glass cantilever structure that appears to reach out over the Hillsborough River, taking event space from 7,200 to 25,600 square feet. The expansion will also add a public restaurant and retail store space. A key part of the expansion is a 10,000-square-foot education center, allowing the museum to serve 24,000 Hillsborough County school students annually. Dianne Jacob, president of the Tampa Museum of Art board of trustees, said in the release that the gift would help the museum move swiftly to complete renovations that are underway. “The Tampa Museum of Art strengthens arts and culture in our vibrant city, and opens the eyes of schoolchildren to the power of beauty and imagination,” said Dick Corbett in the release. “I am proud to make this historic gift to TMA in celebration of their centennial anniversary. My hope is that it will encourage others who have the means to give back to also join in and support the growth of the museum’s world-class exhibits and programs.”