The big story: Sometimes students feel unheard by the school system that’s supposed to serve them. That was the case with some Hillsborough County teens who complained that one of their teachers was behaving inappropriately. Rather than get results, they felt they were targeted for speaking up. But sometimes someone is listening. In this case, it was the federal government. Taking up the students’ concerns, the U.S. Department of Education announced it would investigate the school’s handling of sexual harassment complaints, and whether Title IX violations took place. “We are committed to making sure schools are safe places to learn and are free from sex discrimination or retaliation,” the department stated. Get the latest here. Hot topics Education commissioner: Gov. Ron DeSantis has a recommendation to replace outgoing commissioner Richard Corcoran. It’s Hialeah Republican Sen. Manny Diaz. Math textbooks: The Florida Department of Education released a couple of examples of the content it objected to in math books. To some observers, it wasn’t enough. • The NY Times reviewed 21 book samples to see what’s in the rejected books. • Escambia County school district officials said they might not have adequate time to get new textbooks for the fall, because of the state’s action, the Pensacola News-Journal reports. Gender issues: The Florida Department of Education dropped out of its annual participation in a CDC survey of students that includes questions about mental health and sexual orientation, the Orlando Sentinel reports. Public comment: A speaker was removed by officers from a Sarasota County School Board meeting after the chairperson declared her to be disruptive, WWSB reports. Other school news Graduation day is almost here. Florida universities are celebrating graduating seniors who overcame adversity on their way to their degrees, Fresh Take Florida reports. The St. Johns County school district wants to grow its workforce training programs. It is preparing a new training facility for an historically underserved area of the county, the St. Augustine Record reports. Florida launched a pilot program offering in-state university tuition to grandchildren of Floridians. There’s already a waiting list, the Sun-Sentinel reports. From the police blotter ... A Brevard County mom was arrested on accusations of making a bomb threat against her child’s school because of concerns over cafeteria portions, WOFL reports. • A Lee County middle school student was arrested on allegations of threatening to shoot up the school, the Fort Myers News-Press reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s the link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... King Gizzard & the Lizard Wizard — come for the name, stay for the music. Here’s their latest. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.