Tampa Bay and its seven surrounding counties form one of the most vulnerable regions of the United States to the growing threats of sea level rise and intensifying storms. NOAA’s recently released 2022 Sea Level Rise Technical Report predicts that the Tampa Bay region is facing an approximate 11-inch increase in sea levels over the next 30 years, the same level of increase that we’ve experienced over the past 100 years. It’s time to take action. Regional leaders must plan to replace aging water and wastewater infrastructure, improve transportation infrastructure, and address building codes that predate sea level rise and growing weather threats. This will take intensive planning and wide-ranging community involvement. The Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council is facilitating and fostering the conversations necessary to set us on this path. On April 5-6, the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council and the Tampa Bay Regional Resiliency Coalition will host the second Tampa Bay Regional Resiliency Leadership Summit. At the summit, resiliency experts and government officials will discuss a range of topics — from how cities and counties can turn ideas into reality, to how flooding impacts real estate and property insurance. The coalition members and partner organizations will also discuss the Coalition’s new regional resiliency action plan, which is designed to address the impacts from flooding and sea level rise. This action plan will define priorities for regional collaboration to address flooding and sea level rise threats to housing and critical infrastructure. Resiliency is an important part of the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council’s daily work. As one example, our Resilient Ready Tampa Bay project leaders work with legal and technical professionals to develop guidance and policies on such topics as materials used in seawall construction, recommended height of seawalls and best practices for protecting our shorelines. We’re also bringing together experts in housing and recovery planning to assess potential risks that local communities face from extreme weather and sea level rise as part of the regional planning council’s Tampa Bay REACH Initiative. Together, we’re redefining strategies and policies to encourage affordable, resilient housing development and redevelopment. Common sense, pragmatic plans and results-oriented actions can protect our economic prosperity, our community tax bases, and the well-being of our citizens. In one of the many sessions at the upcoming summit, mayors Jane Castor (Tampa), Ken Welch (St. Petersburg), Frank Hibbard (Clearwater) and Woody Brown (Largo) will share their priorities, progress and future plans for making their cities more resilient, sustainable, and equitable. For resiliency plans to work, we need involvement at all levels of our community. I invite readers to participate in the council’s Resilient Communities and Homes Survey, which will help guide discussions at the leadership summit and will provide input into the coalition’s action plan. Let’s continue our effort together, as we work to make the Tampa Bay region more prosperous and resilient. Sean Sullivan is executive director of the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council.