NORTH PORT — The Rays and Manuel Margot finalized a contract extension that could keep the versatile veteran outfielder with the team for two more years and guarantees him $19 million. Margot, 27, otherwise would have been eligible for free agency after this season, in which he is set to make $5.6 million. The new deal pays Margot $7 million in 2023 and $10 million in 2024, with a $2 million buyout on a $12 million 2025 mutual option. “Manny helps us in many ways, and we’re thrilled to reach an agreement with him on a multiyear extension,” general manager Pete Bendix said in a statement Tuesday. “The quality of his at-bats, his outfield defense, and aggression and instincts on the bases make him a well-rounded player. In addition to how he helps us on the field, he’s a great teammate and clubhouse presence, and has grown into a leadership role on our club.” The Rays acquired Margot in February 2020 from the Padres. In two seasons with them, the speedy right-hander has hit .258 with 11 homers, 68 RBIs, 25 steals and a .691 OPS while playing elite-level defense in all three outfield spots. He also has been praised for his clubhouse leadership, a role that has increased. Rays manager Kevin Cash said after Tuesday’s exhibition game with the Braves that Margot means “quite a bit” to the team. “We like having Manny around,” Cash said. “He’s done so many good things for us. He’s a really good player. Just solid in every part of his game. He gives you a good at-bat, he plays great defense, he’s very good on the bases. And we like to have him in the clubhouse, for sure, and on the field a lot.” The deal, finalized Tuesday evening, is the second contract extension the Rays have completed before the season, also signing shortstop Wander Franco to an 11-year deal for a guaranteed $182 million. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.