ST. PETERSBURG — Kevin Kiermaier has seen the Rays Way win a lot of baseball games, with the combination of good pitching and sometimes spectacular defense. It’s a buttoned-up, tightly pressed formula the team rarely departs from and was responsible for a three-game sweep of Baltimore to start the season. But in losing three of four to Oakland, including Thursday’s 6-3 setback, Kiermaier made it clear there are some things the Rays (4-3) need to iron out quickly. “It was sloppy,” Kiermaier said before he and the team departed for a six-day road trip to Chicago to play the White Sox and Cubs. “There’s no doubt about it, it was sloppy. And sometimes it’s good to be humbled early.” How humbled? Well, the key play in the series finale before 8,287 at Tropicana Field was the kind you might see on the diamonds where kids play. There was a blunder in the outfield between leftfielder Randy Arozarena and Kiermaier that resulted in a single becoming a Little League home run, as well as bungled baserunning — with Manuel Margot getting thrown out at second on a short flyout to right — that prefaced 14 Rays batters being retired in a row. Mix in an injury-depleted pitching staff that walked 19 batters during the four-game series — the most of any four-game stretch since 2019 — and the Rays had to be grateful just to win Tuesday’s extra-inning game in the series. In fact, the highlight of Thursday’s game was the major-league debut of former USF pitcher Phoenix Sanders, who worked three innings, allowing one run, two hits and a walk while striking out two. “We were feeling really good about ourselves after sweeping the Orioles and weren’t taking these guys for granted,” Kiermaier said. “We had our advance meeting early on, and they’re a team who’s traded away a lot of their big guys. But they’ve still got a lot of really good, quality players, and their pitchers threw the ball great, and they swung the bats well every game.” On Thursday, the Rays were hoping for more from starter Josh Fleming. The left-hander pitched well at times, striking out six and walking one through 3⅓ innings. But two of the Rays’ best defenders got him in trouble in the second inning. “A fairly unique play took place,” manager Kevin Cash said. “We’ve got two guys who are elite at covering ground. They just got tangled up.” The A’s Cristian Pache laced a single to left-center with two runners on that cleared the bases and allowed him to also score after an error by Arozarena, staking the A’s to a 3-0 lead. The ball bounced off Arozarena’s foot and took a sharp angle away from Kiermaier, who was backing up the play. It rolled all the way to the wall in centerfield. When Kiermaier failed to pick it up cleanly on the first attempt at the warning track, Pache rounded third and headed for home, scoring standing up. “The ball was between me and the centerfielder, and I was trying to avoid the runner going from first to third,” Arozarena said via interpreter Manny Navarro. “Obviously, it hit off the shoe, and that’s what happened. It’s definitely just part of the game; there really wasn’t anything we could do after that.” The Rays didn’t do much with A’s starter Cole Irvin, who allowed three runs and five hits over 6⅓ innings while walking none and striking out two. Two of those runs came on the third home run of the season by Brandon Lowe, driving in Harold Ramirez, who had doubled to start the bottom of the seventh. “There’s been a couple things that have happened that are more than we’re used to,” Cash said. “We’re down a little bit with some starting pitching and that kind of takes shape for the rest of the pitching staff, so I think that’s somewhat reflective. “What we’ve seen over the last four days is kind of uncanny with the amount of injuries, just not getting deep enough into ballgames, and that’s really taxed us.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.