PORT CHARLOTTE — Brandon Lowe didn’t want his woeful showing in the Rays’ lone playoff series to gnaw at him throughout the longer-than-expected offseason. So, the day after the American League East champions were eliminated by the wild-card Red Sox, Lowe asked major-league operations coordinator Bobby Kinne for a thorough breakdown of how he broke down so badly. How the guy who, despite an extended slow start, hit a team-leading 39 home runs, knocked in 99 runs and posted an .863 OPS during the regular season could go 0-for-the-postseason. “We looked at everything that happened,” Lowe said. “It was not like I was swinging at terrible pitches. I put some pretty good swings on some baseballs, hit some balls hard. Things just didn’t fall, which is the way the game goes. … But it was another postseason that sucked personally.” Which raises the question, is there a pattern here? After an impressive, though injury-shortened 2019 rookie season, which included Rays top rookie and AL All-Star honors (as an injury replacement), Lowe didn’t do much in five playoff games. After his strong showing in the 2020 abbreviated season, which led to the team MVP award and an eighth-place finish in AL MVP voting, Lowe did hardly anything — aside from one two-homer World Series game — in the 20-game postseason. This past season, after a regular season that ranked among the most productive in the league, with another top 10 AL MVP finish, Lowe did absolutely nothing in the four-game AL Division Series — 0-for-18 with nine strikeouts. Consider it this way: In 330 regular-season games over four years, Lowe hit .255 with 76 homers, 212 RBIs and an .859 OPS. In 29 postseason games, he hit .115 with five homers, nine RBIs and a .423 OPS. As the antithesis of  Bucs running back Leonard “Playoff Lenny” Fournette, Lowe may be getting a reputation for coming up small when it matters most. “It’s not his reputation,” Rays manager Kevin Cash countered. “It shouldn’t be his reputation. I would challenge anybody if it is, if that’s what they’re commenting on.” Cash defended Lowe, noting the oddities of the bubbled 2020 postseason and small sample size in 2021 but allowed that if the narrative motivates Lowe, then maybe it can help. Based on Lowe’s history, there’s a good chance it will. Growing up in Virginia, playing college ball at Maryland, battling for attention in the prospect-rich Rays minor-league system after being a 2015 third-round pick, he managed to work his way into becoming a major-league force despite his small stature. “I was always the undersized kid there (who) was never going to play Division I baseball and just kept proving people wrong,” said Lowe, listed at a seemingly rounded-up 5-feet 10, 185 pounds. “Kept growing through the ranks and not worrying about what somebody that’s sitting behind a desk is going to say about him.” Lowe prides himself on hard work, including an extensive hitting training regimen, and drives himself as somewhat of a perfectionist, mildly irritated to have fallen one homer and one RBI from the round-number milestones. Even with the success he has had in the regular season, Lowe suffers from a lack of recognition (which he attributes partly to the small Tampa Bay market), if not respect. In MLB Network’s ranking of the top 100 players, for example, Lowe dropped from No. 53 last year to No. 56. “I don’t know how that happened that way,” he said, “but I made the joke that somehow you hit 39 homers and 99 RBIs and I was worse.” Lowe knows the easiest way to both gain the respect he deserves and shed the reputation he is getting is to put on a show in the postseason. The work with Kinne yielded some information — Lowe doesn’t want to tip off opponents by sharing — about what Lowe changed from the regular season and “what things went wrong.” He is confident that when he gets next back to the postseason he will have learned from his mistakes. Most of all, Lowe doesn’t want to end another winter feeling as ticked off as he did this year. “It won’t be that way,” he said “hopefully ever again.” The low-down on Lowe Games Regular season 333 Postseason 29 At-bats Regular season 1,153 Postseason 113 Batting average Regular season .255 Postseason .115 Home runs Regular season 76 Postseason 5 Runs batted in Regular season 212 Postseason 9 On-base percentage Regular season .341 Postseason .167 Slugging percentage Regular season .518 Postseason .257 On-base plus slugging Regular season .859 Postseason .423 • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.