CHICAGO — Shane McClanahan didn’t care about the frigid conditions for Monday night’s game against the Cubs. His decision to wear short sleeves — the only player in either lineup doing so — made that clear. “You’re not going to change anything up,” he said. “It’s just snow.” The Rays lefty backed up the bravado with the hot outing the Rays have come to expect, striking out a career-high nine and not walking any over six impressive innings. But the season-high innings, more so than the 80 pitches, were deemed enough for the 24-year-old lefty, especially on a night with snow flurries, a first-pitch temperature of 40 degrees and a “feels like” temp of 34 that dropped into the high 20s during the middle innings. And the Rays bullpen faltered, turning a tie game into another loss, this one 4-2. Jason Adam, the former Cub, put the first two batters he faced in the seventh on, hitting Seiya Suzuki with a full-count fastball and walking pinch-hitter Jonathan Villar. He got one out, and lefty Jeffrey Springs got the second, then allowed a single to Ian Happ through the infield that scored the go-ahead run. The Cubs added another in the eighth. Manager Kevin Cash defended the bullpen work, and put the loss as much on the offense for squandering some earlier chances. “Our relievers have done a really nice job,” he said. “We can dwell on that inning, and that’s fine, but there were many opportunities that we had before that you feel like we could have capitalized to give our pitchers a little bit more room.” Adam, for what it’s worth, took some blame. “I wasn’t landing my pitches like I hoped to,” he said. “I think just getting a little big, trying to do too much instead of just trusting my stuff. There are nights like that, so I’ve got to do a better job just battling, getting in the zone and trusting that they’ll hit it where the fielder is standing.” So, too, did Springs, who felt he made a pretty good pitch, noting if the ball is hit a foot to the left the Rays would have been out of the inning. “I expect to get the job done and leave both guys out there,” he said. “Coming into that spot, that’s the only thing I see as a successful outing is if that happens. It sucks, because that’s a momentum shifter for sure. Come in and do my job, 2-2, different ball game.” Rookie Josh Lowe factored into the two runs the Rays got. He singled to lead off the fourth, stole second and scored on Ji-Man Choi’s single, then drove in Brett Phillips with a one-out single in the fifth. The Rays didn’t have many other opportunities, but one that stood out came after Lowe’s single in the fifth that chased starter Kyle Hendricks. With runners on the corners, Randy Arozarena swung at the first pitch from reliever Keegan Thompson and grounded into a double play. “Can’t argue with Randy being aggressive,” Cash said. “He knows the guy’s on third base. … It looked like kind of a cutter down the middle that maybe he was trying to shoot the other way, but he shot it right to first.” McClanahan said he got a pre-game tip from veteran Corey Kluber about the moisture in the air helping him grip the ball on what otherwise could have been a difficult night — “I wasn’t sure if he was joking or not” — and it proved to be the case. McClanahan really made only one mistake, allowing a two-run home run to Patrick Wisdom, and a 420-foot blast at that, two batters after a throwing error by shortstop Taylor Walls, playing in place of Wander Franco (right quad tightness) to open the second. “I felt good considering it was snowing,” McClanahan said. “Tough game. That’s how it is. One mistake. But I thought I did a lot right.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.