Do as I say Three examples of the hypocrisy in Tallahassee | Editorial, April 6. I fully support the efforts of those in Congress and the Department of Justice to hold those involved in the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol fully accountable for any criminal and civil laws they may have broken. I personally feel those Republicans who are not working towards full disclosure should not be re-elected. But Democrats are now following the same playbook with President Joe Biden’s son, Hunter. They are putting in roadblock after roadblock even though “liberal” media outlets have recently provided plenty of evidence that there may be some criminal activities. I guess it is the old, “Do as I say and not as I do.” We should hold those office holders responsible as well. Tom Craig, Riverview David Baldwin, modest saint He died a year ago. His estate just gave Tampa Bay charities $63 million | April 6 Congratulations to all of the worthy causes who will benefit from the generosity of David Baldwin, a modest philanthropic genius. Mr. Baldwin’s legacy will prove to be transformational in its impact for such wonder-filled charitable organizations. It is so obvious that the wealth Mr. Baldwin accrued was not used for high end purchases or luxurious living expenses. Instead, he let his conscience guide him to do what his heart dictated. He was certainly a saint — a blessing to those with great needs. His wise investments will live for generations. Jack Levine, Tallahassee Not surprising at all DeSantis revels in bout vs. Mickey | April 6 A recent poll found only about 50 percent of Democrats opposed banning the teaching of sexual orientation and gender identity in lower grades, as proposed in the Parental Rights in Education bill. A sizable number of Democrats also agree that parents should be able to sue school boards over the issues in the bill. None of this is surprising to me. The vast majority of Floridians are in favor of the Parental Rights in Education bill. John Spengler, Spring Hill Many questions remain Try kindness and understanding for transgender athletes | Letters, March 26 The topic of transgender athletes has become increasingly delicate. Regarding some of the recent situations involving transgender women competing in (and sometimes winning) sporting events, it is hard to know the answer. You ask yourself, “How is it fair?” But then you continue to think and eventually ask yourself, “Is there a solution?” How do we offer a place where these athletes can feel comfortable in their own skin and perform to their fullest potential without making it an advantage or disadvantage to others? It is an issue that is begging for a solution, but how can we solve it? Devon Swartz, Seminole Putin Denouncer? Is a war crimes tribunal in Putin’s future? | Column, March 19 After Nikita Khrushchev was selected as the new Soviet leader, he quickly denounced Josef Stalin for promoting a “cult of personality.” I wonder what Russian leader will denounce Vladimir Putin for war crimes? Ron Ovarlet, Tampa