TALLAHASSEE — Gov. Ron DeSantis announced Tuesday he has expanded the special session on redistricting this week to cut to the core of his latest political enemy and announced he wants lawmakers to repeal the law that allows the Walt Disney World Resort to operate as a self-governing body. “I am announcing today that we are expanding the call of what they are going to be considering this week,” DeSantis said at a news conference in The Villages. “Yes, they will be considering the congressional map, but they also will be considering termination of all special districts that were enacted in Florida prior to 1968 — and that includes the Reedy Creek Improvement District.” The Reedy Creek Improvement District is the special taxing district and governing body for the Walt Disney World Resort. It was created by state lawmakers in 1967 and comprises 39 square miles, two cities and land in Orange and Osceola counties. It allows the company to act with the same authority and responsibility as a county government. Disney can control its own zoning. It has its own police and fire departments, and it operates independently of all the other rules imposed on counties in the state. Repealing the special taxing district status would require the state to put in place a replacement structure. The governor did not elaborate on what he would like to see. The attack on Disney came after the company announced it would withhold political campaign contributions in Florida after legislators passed the Parental Rights in Education bill, also known as the “don’t say gay” law. The company attempted to work behind the scenes to weaken the measure, which prohibits instruction related to gender identity and sexual orientation in kindergarten through third grade, and requires such conversations to be “age-appropriate” in successive grades. The law does not define “age-appropriate.” After the bill was passed, The Walt Disney Co. CEO Bob Chapek apologized to employees at the company for the company’s handling of its opposition to the bill and said that it would be pausing political donations in the state. “For Disney to come out and put a statement and say that the bill should have never passed and that they are going to actively work to repeal it, I think, one was fundamentally dishonest but, two I think that crossed the line,” DeSantis said after Chapek’s comments. In the 2021 legislative session, DeSantis’ staff worked to help Disney receive a special carveout in a bill that aimed to crack down on “Big Tech” social media companies the governor said was banning the accounts of too many conservatives. The bill was a DeSantis priority but has since been blocked in court. The judge cited that the last-minute amendment exempting companies that own theme parks, a move the House sponsor acknowledged was done so that reviews left on Disney+ wouldn’t fall under the law. DeSantis’ war with Disney, however, started after that bill passed and during the COVID fight, when the company required all its on-site employees to be fully vaccinated by late October and the governor announced he would impose fines on the company. At the news conference, DeSantis thanked House Speaker Chris Sprowls and Senate President Wilton Simpson for “stepping up and making sure that we make the sunset or the termination on those special districts happen, which I think is very important.” This is a breaking news story and will be updated. • • • Tampa Bay Times Florida Legislature coverage Sign up for our newsletter: Get Capitol Buzz, a special bonus edition of The Buzz with Emily L. Mahoney, each Saturday while the Legislature is meeting. Watch the Florida Legislature live: The Florida Channel, a public affairs programming service funded by the Legislature, livestreams coverage at thefloridachannel.org. Its video library also archives coverage for later viewing. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news from the state’s legislative session. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.