TAMPA — The Lightning still are learning how best to utilize trade-deadline acquisition Brandon Hagel. But from the looks of the past two games, he might have found a home on a reinvented line alongside two-way forwards Anthony Cirelli and Alex Killorn. The trio hasn’t been together long, put together late in the first period of a loss to the Capitals Wednesday in Washington, but it has shown the potential to evolve into a lockdown line Tampa Bay wants to create ahead of the hard-checking, low-scoring grind of the postseason. Hagel scored an early second-period goal in the Lightning’s 5-0 victory over the Sabres on Sunday, a reward for playing the puck-hounding, hard-nosed, 200-foot game that Cirelli and Killorn are known for. Hagel played many roles for the Blackhawks before coming to the Lightning, and he emerged as a scorer this season. But ultimately his strength is in his ability to create offense from the resilient defense he plays on the forecheck, a style that will help the Lightning win games in the postseason. “You’re starting to see him on the scoresheet,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “He’s a quick player. He gets out on the forecheck, it’s his his bread and butter. He can make guys turn pucks over, and he was rewarded (Sunday).” Hagel’s goal — his 24th of the season and third in 12 games with the Lightning — was a result of him driving to the net. Defenseman Victor Hedman jumped up into the Sabres zone, flicked the puck off the end boards and collected it behind the net, drawing two Sabres with him. He centered the puck to Cirelli, who took the initial swipe at the net, and Hagel backhanded the loose puck past Sabres goaltender Linus Ullmark. “It’s getting better,” Hagel said of playing with Cirelli and Killorn. “Obviously, you don’t really know how too many guys play when you first come in and you kind of have to get used to that type of stuff. ... Just work hard. I feel like we’re all similar in some type of way. I think, personally, I just kind of got to relax and just play hockey instead of panicking out there and making plays that I probably haven’t made since I was a little kid.” Hagel admitted he’s been frustrated that he hasn’t adjusted to his new surroundings more quickly. One of the Lightning’s top priorities is getting Hagel and newly acquired Nick Paul situated in their line roles over the final 10 games of the regular season. Hagel clearly holds himself to a high bar, and the Lightning already have seen a lot that they love, including the way he seems to get his stick in on the play on the forecheck, something that’s earned Hagel the nickname “Sticky” from the coaching staff. “We’ve talked to him of late, just play simple, hunt pucks, be a presence on the forecheck, get above, take away space, and then his instincts will take over,” Lightning assistant coach Derek Lalonde said. “He’s really good from the tops of the circles down offensively, little tight plays.” Hagel had a minus-4 plus/minus rating over his first 10 games while moving across lines. He saw time on the top line alongside Brayden Point and Nikita Kucherov and more recently skated with Paul and Ross Colton. After Hagel’s line allowed two goals early in Wednesday’s game against Washington, he moved to the Cirelli line with just over three minutes left in the opening period. He nearly scored less than a minute later, just missing on a tip-in. Friday against the Bruins, Hagel established himself on the forechecking line and was buzzing in the third period of a tied game. He missed wide on a tip-in midway through the period and quickly emerged from a puck battle along the boards to find open ice for a wrister from the slot in the final minute of regulation. “We want them as comfortable as possible as soon as possible,” Lalonde said of Hagel and Paul. “And I think you’re seeing that. Arguably, Hagel’s best game (against Boston) playing with those two guys (Cirelli and Killorn). Energy, had a chance, a scoring opportunity late in the game (that) the goalie made a great play on.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.