ST. PETERSBURG — After joining the Rays last season, catcher Francisco Mejia got adjusted to both his role as the backup to Mike Zunino as well as the team’s way of using bench players often and sometimes unpredictably. He then learned how to take advantage of his opportunities, establishing himself as one of the Rays’ most clutch hitters. Mejia has continued to do so in the early days of this season. After driving home the winning run in Friday’s opener with an eighth-inning sacrifice fly, Mejia led the way to Saturday afternoon’s 5-3 victory over the Orioles with an RBI single and two-run homer. “He has picked us up,” manager Kevin Cash said. Rookie Josh Lowe also had a hand in the offense, tripling in front of Mejia in the second inning and singling in the third. Drew Rasmussen and Josh Fleming took care of the bulk of the pitching as the Rays started the season 2-0 for the second straight year but just the fifth time in 25. Cash, a backup catcher during his career, has a clear appreciation for what Mejia does. “We’re fortunate we’ve got two catchers that on a given roster could be playing every day,” Cash said. “Frankie stays at it, and I know last year the way it played out ‘Z’ really took off. But in the early goings (this season), we see using them both quite a bit. “But it is tough. Frankie stays positive, he continues to get his work in. There’s a lot of trust with (pitching coach) Kyle (Snyder) and certainly our pitchers when he’s in there.” Rasmussen started and worked four innings, allowing the two runs on a two-out homer by Ryan Mountcastle in the third. Fleming took over in the fifth and got one out into the eighth with a strong outing of his own. J.P. Feyereisen finished the eighth, and Andrew Kittredge worked the ninth, allowing a run. The Rays took a 3-0 lead in the second. Lowe, who worked impressive at-bats in the opener, seeing 28 pitches over four appearances, got them started with another strong showing, lacing a ball up the middle and racing to third. Mejia put the Rays ahead with a single to right. Seeing Lowe race around the bases was inspiring, Mejia said. “I was able to get a little bit more energy, and I was a little more comfortable,” he said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. A Kevin Kiermaier ground-rule double and Taylor Walls walk loaded the bases, and the Rays added on with productive outs. Brett Phillips got one run home with a hard grounder to first, and Wander Franco the other with a scorching liner to right. The Orioles got two back in the third off Rasmussen in the only messy inning of his four. He walked Jorge Mateo to lead off the inning, then with two outs allowed the homer to Mountcastle. “If we don’t give up a walk, I think I’m a little bit happier, but the walk is gonna be the part that frustrates me. Homers are going to happen,” Rasmussen said. “Need to fill it up a little bit better. I felt like I fell behind in counts too often (Saturday). Need to throw strike one a little bit better. But other than that, I thought stuff was pretty good.” The Rays re-extended their lead to 5-2, with Lowe and Mejia again playing roles. Lowe singled with one out, and Mejia hit a two-run homer. “He got on top of a fastball, a pretty well-located pitch, that he drove out of the ballpark,” Cash said. Added Rasmussen: “That man, he doesn’t swing and miss. It’s unbelievable. He puts a barrel on a baseball every time he’s at the plate, so it’s hard to complain there.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.