The big story: Florida just can’t stop debating the new state law governing instruction about gender identity and sexual orientation. The latest comes from Duval County, where a School Board member has called for a resolution supporting the law and denouncing the district’s LGBTQ support guide. Board member Charlotte Joyce, who is unopposed in her reelection bid, is not the only person on the board speaking about the law. Member Elizabeth Andersen, also up for another term, has opposed the law on social media. The discussion ensues on May 3, the Florida Times-Union reports. What does the new law mean in reality? Lee County teachers and parents said they want to see policies explaining how it will be implemented in classrooms, WFTX reports. The Hillsborough County School Board plans a workshop next week to discuss the effect of this law and others approved during the recently ended legislative session, WFTS reports. One upshot of the state fight over the law has been a growing use of the word “grooming” to attack those critics who have called the bill “don’t say gay.” Some experts say misuse of the word has hurt efforts to prevent child abuse, Yahoo News reports. Hot topics Book challenges: The Leon County school district began checking to see if it has Bibles on school shelves after receiving a complaint that the book contains content that’s inappropriate for children, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. • The Ledger provides a list of books that have been challenged in districts throughout Florida. • The Florida Citizens’ Alliance effort to have “Everywhere Babies” banned from Walton County schools has resulted in the children’s book landing at the top of Amazon’s sales chart, USA Today reports. Math textbooks: The Sun-Sentinel looked into why the state approved only one K-5 math series for use. Late Tuesday, the Florida Department of Education added a second K-5 series, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. See the revised list of adopted books. Department officials said the list might be updated again as more publishers file appeals on the initial decisions. • The Santa Rosa County school district said it won’t offer honors statistics in the fall because the state did not approve any textbooks for the course, WEAR reports. • Broward County school district officials said the lack of approved math books could force students into online learning as schools might struggle to get access to physical books, WPLG reports. Taxes: The Brevard County School Board wants voters to decide whether to increase local property taxes in support of teacher and staff raises, Florida Today reports. • The Jacksonville City Council approved placing a school district tax referendum on the August ballot, Florida Politics reports. • The Orange County school district wants voters to extend its local-option property tax, the Orlando Sentinel reports. • Two Bay County charter school leaders asked the school district to share revenue from its local-option sales tax, WMBB reports. Teacher concerns: Florida remains near the bottom nationally in teacher salaries despite efforts to increase wages, WFLA reports. • State Sen. Manny Diaz, the governor’s choice to become Florida’s next education commissioner, says he wants to find ways to “make teaching cool again,” WFSU reports. Diaz is a certified Florida teacher. • A Leon County parent has started a fundraiser to support teachers who will not get bonuses after the Legislature excluded the district from receiving recognition funding, WCTV reports. School board elections: The Brevard County charter review commission discussed transitioning the School Board to at-large countywide seats from the current single-member districts, Florida Today reports. Other school news A Collier County teacher was arrested for putting a video camera in a school restroom. Upset parents want to know what’s being done to prevent a repeat, WINK reports. Prekindergarten programs had been steadily growing for more than a decade. Then the pandemic came along, dampening participation in Florida and several other states, The 74 reports. The city of Ocala is growing quickly. Marion County school district officials are trying to cope with the resulting enrollment expansion, WCJB reports. The University of South Florida St. Petersburg campus is seeking a new regional chancellor. Nine candidates have applied, including some well known names. Transitioning from high school to college isn’t always easy. Seminole State College is offering a summer program to help, WKMG reports. From the police blotter ... A St. Lucie County teacher was arrested and fired amid allegations of hitting a student with a stick, TC Palm reports. From the court docket ... A Palm Beach County teacher was found guilty of trespassing after violating the school district’s mask policy in October, WPTV reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... Okay, Batman fans. This one’s for you. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.