CHICAGO — A lot of what the Rays have done in the first two weeks of this season has been uncharacteristic, such as playing sloppy defense and running into outs. But perhaps what stands out most is their arms shortage. A team that for years has been built with pitching depth has been scrambling almost daily to adjust the staff, using a majors-most 21 in its first 11 games, including four call-ups and two outside acquisitions. And to think, the Rays used a team-record 38 pitchers last year. Injuries have been the primary issue in 2022, as five pitchers — including starters Luis Patino and Ryan Yarbrough, and top fill-in Shane Baz — were hurt since the start of spring training. The Rays are far from the only team feeling the pain. Most have had injury issues, seemingly tied in many cases to the delayed and abbreviated spring training thanks to the lockout and labor settlement. And those teams are also making moves. “We always are planning for the worst-case scenario,” general manager Peter Bendix said. “But so is everybody else. And there’s only so much depth that you can get.” The Rays seem to have been caught particularly short on starters, which further taxes the bullpen. Losing Patino and Baz (for at least two months) and Yarbrough (for at least another week) hurt worse given that Yonny Chirinos, Tyler Glasnow and Brendan McKay already were sidelined for at least the early part of this season due to previous injuries. With prospects Joe Ryan and Drew Strotman among those traded last year, Tommy Romero was left as the best candidate at Triple-A, but he had a rough debut last week (though a better ensuing relief outing) and was sent back to Durham. Next up? Unclear. To be fair, counting the injured starters, Romero would be roughly 11th on their depth chart, so maybe their predicament is understandable. Also, as Bendix said, in a given moment “it feels more dire than it probably is if you take a step back.” With Josh Fleming already moving into the rotation, long reliever Chris Mazza — though he hasn’t been sharp — could be used to start or in a bulk-inning role. Beyond Romero, options on the current Durham roster look to be career minor-leaguer Easton McGee and journeyman Robert Dugger. Young prospects Taj Bradley and Seth Johnson aren’t considered ready. Two other candidates on minor-league deals, David Hess and Aaron Slegers, are working their way back from medical issues. A case could be made to have hung on to a couple more of the team-record 38 pitchers who helped last year, such as Dietrich Enns (who got big bucks to go to Japan). Or to have added another veteran besides Corey Kluber. The no-contact rules during the lockout complicated offseason signings, which is part of the reason the Rays are scrambling now, still looking to add more arms. “That’s pitching,” Bendix said. “The next time we have too much will be the first time.” Where did they all go? The Rays used a team-record 38 pitchers last year, but most of that depth was dispersed (* indicates players on minor-league deals): On active roster (9) RH J.P. Feyereisen LH Josh Fleming RH Andrew Kittredge RH Chris Mazza LH Shane McClanahan RH Drew Rasmussen LH Jeffrey Springs RH Ryan Thompson RH Matt Wisler Injured this spring/season (5) RH Shane Baz RH JT Chargois RH Pete Fairbanks RH Luis Patino LH Ryan Yarbrough Recovering from previous injury (5) RH Nick Anderson RH Tyler Glasnow RH David Hess* LH Brendan McKay LH Cody Reed* Also recovering from injury, but didn’t pitch for Rays in 2021: RH Yonny Chirinos, RH Aaron Slegers* Traded/claimed (3) RH Louis Head, to Marlins RH Brent Honeywell Jr., to A’s LH Ryan Sherriff, by Phillies Left as free agents (8) RH Chris Archer, to Twins RH Shawn Armstrong, to Marlins LH Dietrich Enns, to Seibu/Japan RH DJ Johnson, unsigned RH Collin McHugh, to Braves RH David Robertson, to Cubs RH Chaz Roe, unsigned RH Michael Wacha, to Red Sox Traded/claimed during 2021 season (7) RH Chris Ellis, by Orioles LH Rich Hill, to Mets RH Joey Krehbiel, by Orioles RH Evan Phillips, by Dodgers RH Sean Poppen, by D’backs RH Trevor Richards, to Brewers RH Hunter Strickland, to Angels Retired (1) LHP Adam Conley 2021 Triple-A pitchers traded/claimed (4) RH Tobias Myers, to Indians LH Kenny Rosenberg, by Angels RH Joe Ryan, to Twins RH Drew Strotman, to Twins • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.