ST. PETERSBURG — With top catcher Mike Zunino sidelined with a left biceps strain, Rene Pinto made his first big-league start Wednesday and had another solid showing, rapping a single and getting strong reviews for his work behind the plate. That made for a solid followup to his Tuesday debut, which included a homer for his first hit, as he capped an eight-plus-year climb through the minors. He got to share the joy afterward by talking with his parents, Yencly and Rene, in Venezuela. “They were, like, crying but not crying,” said Pinto, 25. “They were so emotional, because we have been waiting (for) this moment for eight-nine years. And I made it. So, happy. Cool. It feels very good.” Pinto said his phone was “crazy” after he hit the homer in his second at-bat Tuesday, and he was “still counting” the number of messages. Zunino. who left the game with tightness, said Wednesday he was feeling better and was encouraged that he could return to the lineup in a day or two after extensive treatment that included acupuncture, cupping, scraping, lasering and a wearable SamSport ultrasound device. “Just trying to increase some blood flow, trying to get the areas around it looser so it can take some pressure off that muscle,” Zunino said. “It’s literally been a little bit of everything and trying to do everything we can to get it right.” The Rays’ other big-league catcher, Francisco Mejia, missed his fifth game since testing positive for COVID-19 last week. He was said to be feeling better and could rejoin the team this weekend. Bullpen will be busy The Rays (again) were short a starter this week and decided to make Thursday’s matinee series finale with Seattle a bullpen day, with lefty Jeffrey Springs starting. That gives veteran Corey Kluber an extra (and sixth total) day of rest by pushing his next start to Friday’s series opener with Minnesota. The Rays’ last bullpen day went well on Saturday. Six relievers teamed to no-hit the Red Sox for nine innings before a seventh allowed two runs in the 10th, but the Rays came back to win. Cash praised the relievers for being “adaptive” and ego-less in in handling the assignments and being able to work multiple innings. Updates on Baz, McKay, more With Ryan Yarbrough (groin tightness) set to make his second rehab start Thursday for Triple-A Durham, Cash provided updates on other injured pitchers. Perhaps most promising is that Shane Baz (spring arthroscopic elbow surgery) is throwing bullpen sessions and should soon start facing hitters in batting practice, with the potential to be ready when eligible on June 6. Most concerning is that Brendan McKay (thoracic outlet syndrome surgery) is shut down for at least a few days due to soreness in his previously repaired left shoulder. Nick Anderson (elbow surgery) is throwing bullpens, though on a scheduled week off. Tyler Glasnow and Yonny Chirinos (both Tommy John surgery) are playing catch; Luis Patino (oblique) is set to start Thursday. JT Chargois (oblique) is playing catch but has yet to get on the mound. Chris Mazza (back stiffness) remains sidelined. Pete Fairbanks (right lat strain) has a doctor follow-up on May 11. Miscellany Cash said there were no additional COVID-19 issues, but several staff members “are pretty beat up, that’s for sure. ... so it’s not ideal.” ... Announced attendance was 7,290, lowest for the 12 home games so far. ... Seattle starter Marco Gonzales exited in the first inning with a left wrist contusion after being struck by a line drive by No. 3 hitter Harold Ramirez. ... During the eighth inning, a fan jumped out of the stands in the leftfield corner and made his all the way across the field and into the rightfield corner seats before being grabbed by security. ... The Rays allowed two or fewer earned runs for the fourth straight game. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.