Try talking to a conservative Americans have lost the willingness and ability to share common national identity  | Column, April 11 Once again columnist Leonard Pitts tells us that Republicans and conservative thought are what’s wrong with the United States. In his view, conservative values are wrong because they differ from liberal values and thought, which are always right. Republicans are destroying the national identity because they don’t believe what liberal democrats believe. I wager that Pitts would be surprised to discover common areas of agreement in a face-to-face discussion with an old white conservative. Thomas Klein, Tampa Let’s go ... Brandes Special session on property insurance? | April 12 Finally, there might be possible relief and help for all Florida homeowners with Sen. Jeff Brandes working with state legislators in calling a special session on Florida’s property insurance problems. Let’s try a new phrase: Let’s go, Jeff Brandes! John Cutugno, New Port Richey Losing my insurance Special session on property insurance? | April 12 After more than 20 years of paying premiums without a claim, I now find that my homeowners insurance policy is not being renewed. Why are Florida’s elected officials so concerned about suppressing voters, education, abortion and transgender folks when we have an insurance crisis on our hands? I guess it’s all about distraction and the divide-and-conquer philosophy that wins elections. Is this what we need from our representatives? Leonard Kaul, Treasure Island Not a cartographer DeSantis to draft new map | April 12 Does anyone else get a chill down their back with Gov. Ron DeSantis drawing new maps for congressional districts? Looks a lot like September 2019 with our former president “redrawing” hurricane maps. The nut hasn’t fallen far from that tree. Bob Hastings, Land O’ Lakes Can’t get there from here Tampa Bay mayors say transportation key to climate change plans | April 6 A recent $50 taxi ride from Tampa International Airport to my home in east Clearwater got me to thinking: Why is TIA is a world-class airport if it doesn’t have meaningful mass transit? There is just one express route that runs from Pinellas County to the airport. It leaves from one park-and-ride and goes only eight times a day — and then not on weekends or holidays. TIA spent untold millions on parking garages and rental facilities, but there is no real mass transit. I have travelled to airports in developing nations without having to rely on taxis. The airport may be nice, but it’s a pain getting there and back. Eric Jacobsen, Clearwater