ST. PETERSBURG — The Rays got bad news on starter Luis Patino and a slightly less worse update on reliever JT Chargois after both underwent MRIs for left oblique issues. Patino, who left Monday’s start after 13 pitches, was diagnosed with a strain and seems likely to miss about two months. Chargois, who has not pitched since Friday’s opener, was diagnosed with tightness and could possibly return in two-three weeks. Both were placed on the 10-day injured list. Manager Kevin Cash said before Tuesday’s game against the A’s that the Rays would know more about the pitchers’ timetables in about a week. “We’ll see over the next coming days how quickly they respond to treatment,” Cash said. “And then we’ll probably have a better gauge of how long they’re going to be out after this first five, six, seven days pass by.” Patino’s loss seems significant, as the Rays are running short on starters. Monday, they put Ryan Yarbrough on the 10-day injured list due to groin tightness (backdated to Friday) with the hope that he can return when eligible for Monday’s game at the Cubs. The Rays already were without Shane Baz (spring arthroscopic elbow surgery) and top starter Tyler Glasnow (recovering from August Tommy John elbow surgery). An oblique strain for a pitcher usually results in in a six-to-eight week absence, “but you never know,” Cash said of Patino. “He’s 22, he’s in better shape, as good a shape as any guy that we have on our roster. It’s too early to tell how long he’ll be out.” Patino said he hopes to return as soon as possible and will do all the work necessary. Prospect Tommy Romero was called up and started in Yarbrough’s place Tuesday against Oakland. He could stick around, as the Rays will need a starter Sunday at the White Sox. Josh Fleming is slated to start Thursday, allowing the Rays to push back Drew Rasmussen, who was lined up to pitch, and the other starters a day for extra rest. Chargois pitched in Friday’s opener but felt something amiss over the weekend. Cash said there also was an issue during spring training. “Shaggy’s kind of crept up a little bit the towards the end of camp and he managed through it a little bit,” he said of Chargois. “He was fine, and playing catch the other day before the game just felt it tug a little bit.” Chargois is the second high-leverage reliever to be sidelined, as the Rays during the spring lost Pete Fairbanks for about three months due to a lat muscle issue. Ryan Thompson, who was called up Monday, now will assume a larger role in the bullpen. Tuesday, the Rays promoted right-hander Ralph Garza Jr., who pitched for the Astros and Twins last year (with a 1-4. 3.56 record in 27 games, striking out 29 in 30-1/3 innings). The 28-year-old right-hander was claimed by the Red Sox off waivers from the Twins late in spring training. After going to Boston’s Triple-A Worcester team, Garza was claimed by the Rays last week and joined Tripe-A Durham. Despite having stuff in both of those cities, Garza (no relation to former Rays starter Matt Garza) said he welcomed the opportunity to be back in the majors. “It’s an exciting time,” he said. “Anything I can do to help the team win, I’m up for it. So as long as I’m here, I’m going to do that.” Garza has a unique approach, with somewhat different deliveries against right- and left-handed hitters, but basic goals: “Put up zeros first off, and be efficient doing it. It’s really the name of the game. So if I can do that, everything will take care of itself.” Here is the Rays’ lineup: And for the A’s: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.