We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “The Insurrectionists Are Coming,” by A.B. Stoddard in The Bulwark. The context, from the author: Today there are GOP members of Congress who were involved in what Jan. 6 Select Committee member Rep. Jamie Raskin describes as an “orchestrated, premeditated assault on our system of government.” And so Democrats campaigning to defend their majority should warn the people they represent about this fact now, rather than just complaining about it next year. The excerpt: No matter what races they win or lose this fall, or how wide the margin for Republicans, every Democrat knows a GOP House will destabilize this country. It’s time they be open about this fact with their voters. From “I Went on Joe Rogan’s Show, and I Don’t Regret It,” by Ben Burgis in Jacobin. The context, from the author: I was told not to go on Joe Rogan’s podcast. I did anyway — and I talked for an hour to millions of listeners about democratic socialism. The excerpt: I knew there were a good number of people on the Left who wouldn’t like that I went on his show and talked to him. They might be OK with my decision to go on the show if I was planning to yell and denounce him, but I had no interest in doing that — I wanted to have a conversation where I pushed the kind of egalitarian political agenda that I deeply care about. When Joe did show up, the conversation was worth the wait. I got to tell his giant audience about Medicare for All, about why the better working conditions teachers unions fight for are also better learning conditions for your kids, ... why I’m so sure that Bernie Sanders would have won the 2016 election, why I don’t think the United States should play imperial world policeman having a role in diplomatic standoffs everywhere from South America to Ukraine, why economic inequality is bad in principle and bad for democracy. ... From “Mitch McConnell’s Nightmare Scenario,” by Russell Berman in The Atlantic. The context, from the author: Why a GOP Senate takeover in this fall’s midterms is not quite a sure thing. The excerpt: The GOP may be stuck with candidates whose pockmarked, and in a few cases, scandal-filled, résumés could render them unelectable — or at least they would have in an earlier era. FROM THE RIGHT From “The Democrats Have a Principal Skinner Problem,” by Kyle Smith in The National Review. The context, from the author: I am happy to offer Jumbled Joe this advice because I’m sure he’ll reject it in toto. Three cheers for that, because it means his party is going to meet the midterms like a log heading into a wood chipper. Reasonable Democrats are begging the party to pay heed to what the voters actually want and getting absolutely no traction. The excerpt: It’s pretty obvious what President Biden could do to boost his approval ratings and improve his party’s rapidly dissolving prospects in the midterms. He could reverse course on some, or many, or all of the bad policy choices that people hate. He could, for instance, go down to the border and outline a harsh new set of policies for cracking down on illegal immigration. ... He could go up to Montana to say he’s restarting the Keystone Pipeline and announce that he’s opening the spigot on American oil and gas development. ... To relieve inflationary pressures, he could tell people who have student debt, “The party’s over, pal. Pay up.” ... If he switched sides on even one issue in the culture war, even by giving a speech, it would impress moderates. From “The End Of Tolerance,” by John Hirschauer in The American Conservative. The context, from the author: Tolerance, both as a prudential concession to human nature and as a liberal value, has fallen out of fashion. In part, this is because tolerance is judgmental. The excerpt: Secure people don’t care that other people hold them and their beliefs in contempt. There are plenty of people who merely “tolerate” my Catholic faith, for example, and some believe I’m going to suffer unthinkable torments for all eternity for failing to reverence Muhammad or observe the Jewish Sabbath. A few of them will tell me that to my face, which, given their convictions, is an act of charity. The fact that people might disapprove of my religious profession and think worms will pick at my flesh in eternal hellfire doesn’t particularly bother me, partially because I can’t control what they believe, and partially because I think they are wrong. If you are insecure, however, if you don’t believe in your heart of hearts that your beliefs are aligned with reality or your actions are defensible, then the fact that “tolerance” implies judgment of the behavior or belief in question leads you to demand affirmation instead. From “Despite Trump’s Vow He Won’t Return to Twitter, of Course He Will,” by Mike Miller in RedState. The context, from the author: Is his vow to stay off Twitter permanent? The excerpt: Here’s the thing: Pride aside, from a strategic position, why would (Donald) Trump not return to Twitter? Fledgling competition? I suppose, but even in that case, Trump kicking out tweets, just like the “good old days,” would not only expose his thoughts to millions of people who otherwise wouldn’t see them (including Trump Derangement Syndrome-riddled liberals), given there’s no way he isn’t running in 2024, but he could also pimp Truth Social, which would make a hell of a lot of sense, as well.