ST. PETERSBURG — So the Rays have their first, second and third victories of the season. Or, as owner Stu Sternberg said in the clubhouse afterward, victories Nos. 101, 102 and 103 following last season’s 100-win effort. And, you know, it did sort of feel like a continuation of 2021 as the Rays finished their sweep of the Orioles with an 8-0 victory Sunday at Tropicana Field. Maybe, even, a slightly better version of 2021. The pitching was outstanding, the defense was as impressive as ever and the offense might be more well-rounded, even if a little less explosive, than it was last season. You might even say the Rays looked flawless. “I’ll let you say that,” manager Kevin Cash said with a grin. “We feel good. We should be happy with the way we performed.” Granted, this must all be qualified by acknowledging the Rays were playing a team that has finished in last place four of the past five seasons. Tampa Bay has now won 15 consecutive games against the Orioles, which is a franchise record streak against any opponent. Still, it was impressive the way the Rays pulled off the sweep. They had no errors, no wild pitches and no passed balls all weekend. They never trailed Their starting pitchers — including veteran Corey Kluber making his Rays debut Sunday — had a 1.38 ERA in 13 innings, and their bullpen was slightly better at 1.28 over 14 innings. There were a handful of highlight-worthy defensive plays, including shortstop Wander Franco covering 99 feet on the dead run Sunday to grab a pop fly in short leftfield with the Rays in a shift. What stood out, however, was the methodical approach of Rays hitters. They worked deep counts and forced the Orioles into the bullpen earlier than they would have preferred. The Rays also played the kind of small ball that was not often their style last season, driving in four runs with sacrifice flies and two more with groundouts during the three-game series. “I think it’s kind of just a representation of what we’re doing as a team,” said second baseman Brandon Lowe, who hit a 437-foot home run after a Mike Zunino sacrifice fly and a Manuel Margot RBI groundout in a four-run second inning. “There’s no selfishness in the lineup, one through nine. And then whoever’s on the bench that day is ready to come in to help at whatever time, whether it’s the second inning or the ninth inning. Everybody just has that same goal, I think. We want to be in the World Series.” Adding Franco early last season with rookie Josh Lowe this season has also given the Rays two more patient hitters, to go along with Yandy Diaz and Ji-Man Choi. That means even 1-2-3 innings can often be a chore for opposing pitchers who aren’t getting the Rays to chase after pitches outside the zone. “You look at half or more than half our lineup can really grind an at-bat and take tough pitches,” Cash said. “Sit on tough pitches and then do damage with pitches they can handle.” All in all, it made for a pretty stress-free weekend for Rays fans, including the announced crowd of 14,100 on Sunday. The Rays never trailed in any of the three games and held the lead at the end of 21 of the 27 innings. “A lot of talent,” Franco said through interpreter Manny Navarro, “and a lot of discipline.” It’s the first time the Rays have started a season 3-0 since 2012, and it’s only the third time in the franchise’s 25-year history. It’s an incredibly small sample size, but is it possible the Rays could actually improve on a 100-win season? That’s a tall order, but they could take another step Monday in the series opener against Oakland. Tampa Bay, after all, has never been 4-0 before. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.