ST. PETERSBURG — Kevin Kiermaier usually talks a good game. As one of the most available, experienced and loquacious players in the Rays clubhouse, he often ends up with reporters and TV cameras gathered at his locker as he speaks for the team. Over the weekend, Kiermaier showed he also can still play a pretty good game. Saturday, he fulfilled one of his two career dreams in hitting a walkoff home run that gave the Rays a historic win over the Red Sox. Then Sunday, patrolling centerfield with his usual pride and prowess, he made a spectacular over-the-shoulder basket catch look routine to preserve a lead. “KK has a lot of moments for us,” manager Kevin Cash said after Sunday’s win. “He had a huge one (Saturday) night. He has so many moments in the field. I don’t ever want to say you take them for granted. We appreciate them all.” Kiermaier has three gold — and one platinum — gloves at his Tampa home, and he’d likely have another one or two if not for injuries, to validate his defensive wizardry. Offensive contributions have been a bit more sparse, which explains why the home run was the much better highlight for Kiermaier, capping a big week as he turned 32 on Friday and a few days earlier had a reunion in Chicago with older brother Dan, the head groundskeeper at Wrigley Field. “The walkoff homer was way cooler than any catch,” he said. “I’ve made plenty of catches in my career. Any time you can make an impact, offensively, defensively, on the bases, you try to come up big for your team. “I was able to have one of the biggest swings of my career (Saturday) and made a nice catch (Sunday). When you step between the white lines, you just want to win games. My pitchers know that and they trust me. If they attack the zone, they know they have a good defense behind them.” Plus, the home run was more dramatic. Six Rays relievers had combined to no-hit the Red Sox for nine innings, but Boston had gone ahead 2-0 in the 10th. The Rays got one back when Taylor Walls’ hustle on a two-out grounder to second forced a bad throw, extending the game, scoring Randy Arozarena and bringing Kiermaier to the plate. He worked the count to 3-1, got the Hansel Robles fastball he was looking for and lasered it, at 105.6 mph, over the rightfield fence. His first game-ending home run — at any level — made the Rays, per ESPN, the first team in major-league history to lose a no-hitter in extra innings then win the game on a walkoff. (Two road teams had won after losing no-hitters in extras: the 1995 Expos and 1904 Cubs.) “I said before my career’s over I want to win a World Series and No. 2 behind that I want to hit a walkoff,” Kiermaier said. “I want to know what this moment’s like. I now know it. “I just hope that that one swing right there makes me click and so I can make more offensive contributions to this team. Hasn’t been great so far, but I’m not going to sit here and pout about it. I’m going to come in and get my swings. I’m going to work to get back to being locked in and know maybe this was a turning point for me. But I’m ecstatic right now.” Though Kiermaier did single and score Sunday (raising his average to .162 and OPS to .541), the catch in the top of the sixth, just after the Rays had erased an early deficit and taken the lead, was that day’s highlight, adding to his litany of great grabs. “I feel like I can always make that play,” Kiermaier said. “I like the ones where I’m running and extend. It’s trusting your instincts and training your eyes to know where to put the glove. “I want to do things differently than the majority of outfielders. I want to make the kind of plays that separate good outfielders from great outfielders. I want to be great. I like keeping it interesting, too. I’m like a free safety playing centerfield. I hope I keep getting more opportunities.” The Rays will be watching, and listening, to what he has to say afterward. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.