ST. PETERSBURG — There is a reason the Rays pursued Corey Kluber after the 2020 season when he eventually signed with the Yankees, then went after him again following the 2021 season. And you saw why Sunday afternoon. Kluber, who signed a one-year, $8 million deal with Tampa Bay, did not have his best stuff in his Rays debut Sunday, and yet managed to throw shutout ball for 4⅔ innings in an 8-0 win against Baltimore. Giving up three hits and four walks, Kluber was pitching out of the stretch for half of the 20 hitters he faced. But he kept the Orioles hitless with runners in scoring position. “I had some pitches that I would say weren’t necessarily that competitive,” Kluber said. “But, you know, I was able to make the adjustments and kind of reel it back in when I needed to make pitches.” After shoulder problems limited him to 17 starts in 2020-21, the Rays want to be careful not to overextend Kluber — he turned 36 Sunday — following a shortened spring training. Still, manager Kevin Cash kept him on the mound for 87 pitches before finally going to get him, one out away from qualifying for the win. “We wanted to give him that final out in the fifth, but we felt like that pitch count had gotten to where any more than that and we’re getting a little uncomfortable,” Cash said. “But he’s going to have plenty of opportunities to get his W’s.” Ryan Yarbrough tweaks groin; Tommy Romero to rescue Lefty Ryan Yarbrough is heading to the injured list as a precautionary move after tweaking a groin muscle. The Rays do not expect it to be a long-term move. Right-hander Tommy Romero is being called up from Triple-A Durham and likely will make his major-league debut Tuesday, which was supposed to be Yarbrough’s first start of the season. The team has not decided whether Romero will start the game or throw bulk innings following an opener. Romero, 24, threw 3⅔ innings of shutout ball in his first start at Durham last week, after going 8-2 with a 2.61 ERA between Double A and Triple A in 2021. Josh Lowe earning early praise Rookie Josh Lowe has a .417 on-base percentage in the first three games of the season but, more than that, has impressed Cash with the way he has worked his at-bats. Lowe has averaged 5.2 pitches per plate appearance. “His at-bats might be the highlight of the series offensively,” Cash said. “I mean, I know he got the triple (Saturday) but just a lot of lengthy at-bats, laying off tough pitches, fouling off tough pitches, a couple of walks here and there. Very, very impressive for a guy that came into the season with one (big-league) at-bat.” Here’s Luis Patino’s motivation After wearing No. 61 as a rookie in 2021, Luis Patino has switched to former Rays shortstop Willy Adames’ now-available No. 1 this season. Patino, making his first start of the season Monday against the Athletics, had wanted No. 16 but was told by the higher-ups that it was off-limits. No. 16, you see, belongs to Cash. The manager said he would gladly give it to Patino but deferred to the front office’s wishes. “If he wants to go win a Cy Young,” Cash said, “he can have it.” Miscellany Monday night’s game against Oakland is the first with the new 6:40 start time for weekday games. … Brandon Lowe’s two-run homer ended an 0-for-27 stretch, including his hitless postseason against the Red Sox in the ALDS. … From the obscure info department, Wander Franco is only the fifth American Leaguer age 21 or younger to have two three-hit games in the first three games of the season. Hall of Famers Paul Molitor and Ty Cobb are among that group. … Because Kluber did not complete five innings, Jeffrey Springs got the win for retiring one batter with two runners on base in the fifth. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.