TAMPA — For Lightning defenseman Zach Bogosian, being back at home means more time on the ice with his kids. And Bogosian’s 3-year-old son Hunter wants to be a hockey player just like his dad. “He plays (hockey) all day and talks about it all day,” Bogosian said Thursday. “He wears his jersey around the house all day. I bring him (skating) as much as I can. We’ve been on the road quite a bit recently, so it was nice to just get out there with him and my daughter (Mila) and just kind of mess around, play around. ... “And he asked me if I wanted to fight. ... He likes to fight at home, but that was his first time on skates that he asked me. He’s just starting to move around, so maybe he’s feeling a little more confident, I guess, with his skills, but it was fun.” Fighting is certainly a part of Bogosian’s game — he has two fighting majors this season — and from the looks of things, Hunter has certainly taken note of his dad’s technique. A video on Bogosian’s Instagram story showed Hunter challenging his dad, complete with him flinging his stick and both gloves down the ice and rolling up his sleeves. Hunter shuffled toward his father and fell, leading Bogosian to teach his son his first lesson of fighting in hockey. “When I grabbed him he was just, like, trying to double punch me and I was like, ‘You’ve got to hold on to something at some point or else you’re going to fall,’” Bogosian said. “But yeah, we were just messing around. He actually caught me pretty good in the nose, which I didn’t think he was going to. … He pretty much jumped me. I was surprised how hard he threw his stick and gloves. That was cute.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.