ELMONT, N.Y. — The Lightning have a lot riding on Friday’s regular-season finale against the Islanders at UBS Arena. The Lightning could have clinched third place in the Atlantic Division — and a first-round meeting with the Maple Leafs — with a win Thursday in Columbus, but their 5-2 loss to the Blue Jackets, combined with Boston’s 5-0 win over Buffalo, made things murky. Tampa Bay enters its final game one point ahead of Boston for third place. The Bruins face the Leafs Friday in Toronto in their final game. The Lightning still control their fate. Beat the Islanders, and they seal third place no matter the outcome of the Bruins game. But if the Lightning lose, only a regulation loss by the Bruins will give the Lightning third place. Otherwise, a Tampa Bay loss combined with a Boston win or an overtime or shootout loss by the Bruins would give Boston third place and a date with Toronto. If the teams finish with the same amount of points, Boston wins the tiebreak for third place due to more regulation wins. If the Lightning slip to the No. 1 wild-card spot in the conference, they will face the Metropolitan Division champion Hurricanes in the first round. A date with Carolina also will make the Lightning’s path to the conference final much different, forcing Tampa Bay to get through Metropolitan teams entirely to advance. They would face the winner of the Rangers-Penguins first-round series in the second round. If they face Toronto, the Lightning will meet the winner of the Panthers-Capitals series should they advance. Whether the Lightning open the playoffs in Toronto or Raleigh, N.C., the series likely will begin Monday. The Bruins reportedly recalled several players from their AHL team in Providence this morning, suggesting that they could rest some of their regulars tonight in Toronto. The Lightning are hamstrung by salary-cap issues that have hindered them from making any roster moves down the stretch. But, perhaps most importantly, they want to go into the playoffs recapturing the momentum they built over the past three weeks before their flat performance Thursday in Columbus. “We’re going to play a good Islanders team (Friday) that’s not gonna lay an egg for us,” Lightning forward Pat Maroon said following Thursday’s loss. “They’re gonna come out hard against us, and we’ve got to be ready because we have one more game — one more dress rehearsal — before the big playoff starts.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.