Pasco County leaders are taking smart steps to help shape the character of new residential developments, not just in scale but also in neighborhood aesthetics. Growth is rampant in the county and without some guardrails in place, future subdivisions could easily sprout up with little distinguishable character. Pasco is smart to set standards now to avoid becoming a concrete jungle. The county has been in growth mode for at least 20 years. It was the early 2000s at the start of the housing bubble that housing subdivisions started to replace longtime orange groves and cattle ranches in the eastern and middle swaths of the county.  That led to more commercial and retail development, as well as major road projects. Interstate exits were added and are still being added to accommodate the swelling population. Even now, the housing crash feels like a distant memory as the building boom pushes on again. This time, though, there are lessons from areas like Wesley Chapel and Zephyrhills, where growth outpaced smart planning and resulted in hard-to-undo traffic tangles. On the other hand, developments like Longleaf and Starkey Ranch farther west show what a difference zoning and neighborhood standards make, as those areas feel more like traditional neighborhoods with sidewalks, alleys and greenspaces. So it’s good to see that perspective reflected in standards governing new subdivisions approved last month by the County Commission. Specifically, subdivisions with 40- and 50-foot-wide lots will require house design differences, such as colors, materials like brick, stucco or stone, and arrangements of doors, windows and porches. The rules also limit the number of homes on small lots with driveways in the front and set specific requirements for trees in the front of homes. Any neighborhood that has all 40-foot-lots — which developers say are in demand — would require garages that are accessed from an alley. It makes a stunning difference for a neighborhood to have homes with front porches and welcoming entryways instead of rows and rows of garage doors. The standards are not perfect, but county leaders were smart to take input from developers and land-use attorneys in crafting them and commit to reviewing them in six months and make adjustments as needed. Late last year, the commission extended a moratorium on new apartment complexes as requests for land-use changes to allow multi-family units, largely in the Wesley Chapel area, poured in for approval. County staff couldn’t even say how many apartments Wesley Chapel needed — or how many already existed. That extension is set to expire soon, so commissioners will have to decide again how much is too much. In Pasco County, growth shows no signs of slowing down. This once-rural county is now a well-established population center in the Tampa Bay region. It also still has large tracts of open land that are ripe for development in this era of housing shortages and soaring real estate prices. It would be a tragedy for Pasco leaders to allow development to overtake planning and watch the county become just a faceless suburb. Smart, credible rules that ensure houses don’t all look the same and neighborhoods aren’t more asphalt than greenspace are wisely written and well-timed. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.