Let’s say your boss came to you with an important task. “Bumstead, we need you to prepare a detailed analysis of the upcoming Haversham merger. This is a critical assignment, and you have 60 days to get it done.” Two months pass. When your supervisor asks for the report, you say: “Uh, never quite got around to it. I spent the last eight weeks, leaving work early, swilling cocktails, watching Netflix and frequenting topless bars.” A simple question. How long do you think you would still be employed? Not long. However, if you were the governor of Florida or a member of the Republican-controlled Florida Legislature you would be rewarded with gobs of campaign contributions, powerful committee assignments, re-election and a reserved VIP table in Tucker Carlson’s green room. After all, in Tallahassee Elmer Fuddesque incompetence has its perks. Sixty days. Two Months. Eight weeks, not to mention the various committee activity leading up to the 2022 Florida legislative session. And yet at the end of all the very impressive looking purposefully striding back and forth across the Capitol building, your august Republican public servants, including the Huey Long-lite of Florida politics, Gov. Ron DeSantis, turned out to be less responsive to the real needs of their constituents than Mel Brooks’ Gov. William J. Le Petomane in “Blazing Saddles.” Two major issues loomed. First, Floridians are being hammered by draconian property insurance rate hikes, rocketing into double digits. Many insurance companies are abandoning the state. The crisis threatens seniors on fixed incomes with the loss of their homes. The insurance boosts are also making it all but impossible for lower-income families to realize the American dream of home ownership. And the insurer of last resort, Citizens Property Insurance, has seen a 340,000 increase in policy holders over the past two years. The insurance companies wring their hands and claim they are powerless, mere lambs being led to slaughter because of evil, unscrupulous roofing contractors ripping off unsuspecting homeowners by inflating the costs of repairs. Woe is us! Meanwhile, countless condo owners who live in older properties are at greater risk, because the Legislature also failed to take up a bill that would require regular inspections of their buildings. The need for such a measure came into horrific relief last year after the collapse of Champlain Towers South in Surfside, which killed 98 people. What did the Florida Legislature and DeSantis do to fix these problems? Nothing. Nada. Bupkes. Zero. That’s only understandable. After all, this spittoon of pols were far too preoccupied tackling other more vital issues. Busy, busy, busy. Why they had to make it harder for women to get an abortion even — EVEN — if the pregnancy was the result of rape or incest. There were books to ban. And why not? You let a kid read Toni Morrison’s “Beloved,” and the next thing you know they might want to be scandalized by “Catcher in the Rye.” Where does it end? The governor, when he wasn’t wrestling with the Gordian knot conundrum of whether to come out foursquare against Nazis running around Orlando, still managed to summon the raw courage to pick a fight with high school students wearing masks in his presence. Who has time for millions of Floridians hit with massive property insurance increases when there are 17-year-olds who need to be set straight on COVID prevention protocols? And let us not forget, working diligently to make it harder to vote and attacking the LGBTQ community. Work, work, work. Solving the insurance crisis? Protecting condo owners? Pffffttt! Let’s turn our energies instead to undermining minority representation in Washington by gerrymandering a Black district out of existence. Now there’s some principled leadership for you. As if it was possible, DeSantis has turned into a bigger prevaricating mealy-mouthed demagogue than Donald Trump. No small accomplishment. When asked if he would use his power to call a special session of the Legislature to, you know, help vulnerable people, DeSantis went into full “Hummana, hummana, hummana” mode. There is a potential partial fix. Former Gov. Charlie Crist once floated the notion of requiring any insurance company that sells products like auto insurance in Florida to also offer property insurance as well. Alas it went nowhere in Tallahassee. Another example of the truism: “Don’t mess with the insurance lobby.” Never fear. The midnight oil continues to burn. DeSantis did use his power to call for special session to redraw voting districts to dilute Black representation. You might want to thank the governor for all his tireless efforts, especially as you write that property insurance premium check.