TAMPA — If there were times when Ondrej Palat thought he’d never score another goal, he never showed it. Instead, the Lightning forward went to work and continued to do the little things that have made him a mainstay on the top line. Palat hadn’t found the back of the net in nearly three months, taking a 28-game goal drought into Sunday’s game against Buffalo. The Lightning, looking to build on the positives they took out of Friday’s overtime loss to the Bruins, came out strong against the Sabres. And in the first period, Palat ended his dry spell, scoring as the Lightning netted the game’s first two goals in 17 seconds, sending relief through the bench and setting the tone for a dominating 5-0 win at Amalie Arena. “I knew there was going to be some day that I’m going score,” Palat said, smiling. “So I’m glad it was (Sunday).” With the win, the Lightning (44-20-8, 96 points) not only snapped their season-high four-game losing streak but also passed the Bruins (95 points) for third place in the Atlantic Division. The Bruins lost to the Capitals on Sunday. Tampa Bay can clinch a playoff spot with a win at Dallas on Tuesday. Sunday’s win, which came against a Buffalo team that entered the day having earned points in nine of its previous 12 games, was one of the Lightning’s best all-around games of the past month. Take away the final five minutes of the second period and the Lightning dominated in zone time and were strong defensively. The Lightning have allowed only one goal in regulation over the past two games. “If we want to make some noise on the spring, it all comes down to how we play in our own end,” coach Jon Cooper said. As the Lightning try to find the right line combinations for the postseason, they received goals from all four lines. Trade-deadline acquisition Brandon Hagel scored his third goal with the Lightning, and his 24th overall, and Ross Colton netted his 16th of the season. Backup goaltender Brian Elliott recorded 28 saves, improving his record to 5-1-1 in his past seven starts and his first shutout since Feb. 27, 2021, for the Flyers against the Sabres. Elliott will likely see increased playing time over the final 10 regular-season games as the Lightning give Andrei Vasilevskiy some rest. Though the Lightning entered Sunday 6-8-2 in their previous 16 games, they saw Friday’s 2-1 overtime loss to Boston as a step toward getting back to winning hockey. Sunday’s win was another step. “Things change quickly,” said defenseman Ryan McDonagh, who returned to the lineup after missing the previous eight games with an upper-body injury and fed Nikita Kucherov with a nifty cross-ice pass to set up the Lightning’s fourth goal. “That’s why you got to stick with your habits and make sure you have a good attitude. Obviously, frustration can set in when you don’t get the results and the wins don’t come, but if there’s anything this group knows how to do, it’s stick with it and try to find a winning formula and a winning recipe.” Corey Perry snapped a 16-game goal drought by scoring 9:21 into the game. Seconds later, Palat scored. Though Palat hadn’t scored since Jan. 11 at Buffalo, Sunday’s goal was his 16th of the season, which is right around his career average over his nine full seasons in the league. “There was some good chatter on the bench,” Cooper said. “You could tell there was relief for the guys. (Palat was) the only guy with two points in the game, so it was good for him and much needed for a couple of the guys.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.