ST. PETERSBURG — With Rays catcher Francisco Mejia sidelined after testing positive for COVID-19, Rene Pinto got word Friday afternoon that he was being called up to the big leagues for the first time in his career. But he couldn’t get to the Trop in time for that night’s game. Pinto was with Triple-A Durham in Norfolk, Va., and the only available flights, connecting through Atlanta, didn’t get him to Tampa until around 10:30 p.m., about the time the game against Boston was ending. “I was trying to be here on time, but we couldn’t (make it),’’ Pinto, 25, said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Pinto went to the hotel after getting to St. Petersburg and had to settle for coming to work as a major-leaguer for the first time on Saturday, completing a journey that started when he signed as a 16-year-old from Venezuela with the Rays in 2013. (Among active Rays players, only Kevin Kiermaier has been with the franchise longer.) “I know I’ve grinded in this organization,’’ Pinto said. “I’ve started from the bottom, and I’ve had to work my way up. Thank God I’ve had this opportunity to do that now.’’ Pinto acknowledged the unfortunate circumstances of his promotion but said it was up to him to take advantage of the opportunity. Manager Kevin Cash praised Pinto’s defensive skills, noting “there’s a lot of confidence that he can come up here and handle our pitching staff,’’ and said he might get his first start on Sunday since he has some past experience with starter Shane McClanahan. Mejia ‘OK;’ no further issues yet Cash said Mejia was “doing OK. (Friday) was kind of a groggy day for him, but hopefully he continues to make progress.’’ The manager also said about three hours before Saturday’s game that some of the staff that was kept away from the team Friday for precautionary reasons had returned and that there were no further COVID-19 issues. “Nothing as of right now, which is good,’’ he said. “But I think it’s fair to say our radar is pretty up high right now.’’ ... Possibly related, infielder/outfielder Vidal Brujan was headed from Norfolk to Tampa on Saturday afternoon to be added to the taxi squad but not necessarily activated. Colin Poche pleased with return Colin Poche had some feelings walking out to the bullpen before Friday’s game, his first at the Trop and in the majors since the 2019 playoffs. He was hurt in 2020′s second spring and missed all of last year recovering from Tommy John surgery. “I almost got a little emotional just kind of thinking of everything that’s happened over the last few years, just the road back and everything,’’ Poche said. “But once I got out there, it was just baseball as always.’’ That it was, and the lefty reliever looked as sharp as ever, needing just six pitches to set the Red Sox down in the seventh inning of a 4-3 loss. Miscellany Lefty Ryan Yarbrough, out since the start of the season with left groin tightness, was slated to make a rehab start for Durham on Saturday and could rejoin the Rays to pitch Thursday. ... Wander Franco’s two home runs Friday were the hardest hit balls of his career, clocking 109.7 mph (done once previously) and 112.4 off the bat. … At 21 years and 52 days, Franco not only was the youngest player in Rays history with a multihomer game but the youngest in the majors since Washington’s Juan Soto (20 years, 297 days) on Aug. 18, 2019. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.