TAMPA — Lightning forward Pat Maroon said “this game’s going the wrong way” after he and Maple Leafs forward Wayne Simmonds each received 10-minute misconduct penalties for jawing at each other from their benches early in Tampa Bay’s 6-2 loss Monday at Amalie Arena. Maroon, the Lightning’s chief enforcer, had been chirping with Simmonds, who plays the same role for the Leafs, for most of the game’s first six minutes. The exchange came after Lightning forward Corey Perry drew five Toronto skaters, including Simmonds — who began pushing and shoving Perry — after a whistle in front of Leafs goaltender Jack Campbell. Following a faceoff in the Toronto zone, referee Frederick L’Ecuyer whistled the play dead and issued matching 10-minute misconduct penalties to Maroon and Simmonds. On the Lightning’s TV broadcast, color analyst Brian Engblom, who was calling the game from ice level between the benches, said L’Ecuyer warned both players before calling the penalty. “It’s kind of too bad in a way,” Engblom said on the broadcast, “because this is what the flavor is all about, everybody just kind of leering at each other. I heard Maroon say to Simmonds, ‘Hey, you’re going to be out of the league next year, anyway.’ The other comment from Simmonds I can’t really repeat.” Maroon often engages in trash talk with other players both on the ice and from the bench, sometimes reminding opponents that he has three Stanley Cup rings. Perry isn’t afraid to engage in chirping, either. There was no further escalation between Maroon and Simmonds, and by the second period the physical tone of the game gave way to a quick-paced tempo that favored Toronto. Afterward, Maroon expressed frustration with the call. “This game’s going the wrong way,” he said. “I guess you can’t chirp each other on the bench now. I guess that’s illegal. I guess it’s better to watch 1980s hockey when guys were chirping each other. “I don’t know why they did that,” he continued. “I guess the game’s going the opposite way. They don’t want to see that anymore. I guess (L’Ecuyer) said that it’s bad for the TV, which is really shocking.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.