ST. PETERSBURG — Rays catcher Francisco Mejia went on the COVID 19-related injury list after testing positive following the team’s six-game road trip to Chicago. Several other staff members from Tampa Bay’s traveling party also have tested positive. The Rays called up catcher Rene Pinto from Triple-A Durham. “We’ve got one player, Frankie Mejia, that we are running tests on right now,” manager Kevin Cash said before Friday’s game against the Red Sox. “Other than that, there’s just a handful of staff, whether positive or precautionary, we have asked to stay away. We’ll take it day to day.” Mejia, 26, is off to a hot start in 2022 with a .348 batting average and a team-high 10 RBIs. Pinto, who has been in the team’s system for eight years and was hitting .268 at Triple-A Durham, was already on the 40-man roster. The Rays were in Chicago for six games against the White Sox and Cubs before returning to Tampa Bay on Wednesday night. Some staff members were asked to self-test on Thursday, but players were not required to do so. “These are things that all teams have had to deal with the last two years, and this is why you have a 40-man roster,” centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier said. “I don’t know if it will get to that point, we’ll see. But we’ve got 28 guys ready to go, and we’re going to try to win a series.” Friday’s opponent, the Red Sox, were already dealing with their own COVID problems. Manager Alex Cora tested positive Thursday and did not accompany the team to Tampa Bay. Wacha returns to Trop The Rays were ever hopeful that Michael Wacha would rediscover his early-career dominance after a few seasons battling shoulder problems. It looks like Wacha might have finally turned the corner — except now he’s pitching for the Red Sox. Following an up-and-down season in Tampa Bay, where he went 3-5 with a 5.05 ERA in 124 innings, Wacha signed a one-year, $7 million deal with Boston. In his first two starts for the Red Sox, he has given up three hits and one run in 9⅓ innings of work. Tonight’s lineup Here’s the Rays lineup he will be facing in tonight’s 7:10 start with Corey Kluber on the mound for Tampa Bay: B. Lowe 2B Franco SS Arozarena LF Choi 1B Diaz 3B J. Lowe DH Margot RF Kiermaier CF Zunino C Roster moves The Rays also made a roster move Friday afternoon, putting RHP Chris Mazza on the 10-day injured list (retroactive to April 18) with back spasms. Left-hander Colin Poche was recalled from Triple-A Durham, completing his comeback from his second Tommy John surgery. Poche has not pitched in the majors since Game 5 of the 2019 American League Division Series. He tore a ligament in his elbow during the lead-up to the shortened 2020 season. Poche has pitched six shutout innings, giving up one hit in six appearances in Durham. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.