TAMPA — When it comes to playing for Todd Bowles, it’s not his bark you have to watch out for. It’s his snark. That’s according to linebacker Lavonte David, who knows a thing or two about new head coaches with the Bucs. He will be playing for his fifth since being drafted by Tampa Bay in 2012. Bowles has served as the Bucs’ defensive coordinator for the past three seasons and still will call plays on that side of the football. But offensive players are going to discover that while the transition from Bruce Arians to Bowles may appear to be seamless, they will have to learn to adjust to his sarcasm. “He likes to talk a lot of trash,” David said. “When you drop an interception, miss a tackle or get into a bad drop, he’s funny, but he’s serious at the same time. It’s like one of those things when you laugh, but, ‘I know I’ve got to get right. Bowles is on me.’ But it’s all fun, and you have fun playing the game for him.” David, who previously played for Greg Schiano, Lovie Smith and Dirk Koetter in addition to Arians, said he loves the change in command. “I love the move. It’s a great thing. Just putting the right guy in front,” David said. “I think everybody is going to love him, everybody is going to get along with him. ... You don’t get no bad words from nobody talking about Bowles. You know, Coach Bowles is a great dude. He’s a team-first guy, he’s a player-first guy.” While David said quarterback Tom Brady unretiring was a bigger surprise than Arians stepping down, he was relieved Bowles didn’t receive another head-coaching job in the NFL, as expected. Instead, most of the coaching staff from the past two seasons was retained, including defensive line coach Kacy Rodgers and linebackers coach Larry Foote, who will serve as co-defensive coordinators. The continuity is a huge boost for the Bucs, especially to younger players such as outside linebacker Joe Tryon-Shoyinka, the team’s first-round pick last year. “It’s really exciting,” Tryon-Shoyinka said of Bowles’ hiring. " You’ve got a new head coach, but it’s a familiar face in the building, so I believe it’s going to be a smooth transition as long as the defense is all on the same page, same similar things we’re going to be doing, similar terms, so it should be a pretty good transition for me and the defense. I’m pretty excited.” The Bucs had a similar transition before, David recalled. After two seasons, Koetter, who had been offensive coordinator, took over for Smith as head coach. But Smith was fired, unlike Bowles, who became part of Arians’ desired succession plan. Arians will have a role in the front office. In fact, Bowles is one of the people who attracted free agent safety Keanu Neal to the Bucs. “Talking with Coach Bowles, I mean, he’s a mastermind,” Neal said. “He’s really good at what he does. So I’m really excited to be a part of this group, what they stand for and what we’ve got to offer.” Ironically, it was Bowles’ blown Cover Zero call that cost the Bucs in the final seconds of their 30-27 loss to the Rams in a division-round playoff game. In particular, David was caught patrolling the middle of the field in no-man’s land during a 44-yard completion to Cooper Kupp that set up Matt Gay’s winning field goal. “I kind of wasn’t expecting them to go no-huddle at that moment,” David recalled. “It was kind of one of those things where you wanted to make sure nobody missed the call. Guys were running all over the place and you were trying to make sure people were getting it, because with those types of things you’ve got to make sure everybody is on the same page. ...They just hurried up and hiked the ball and caught us off guard, and I got caught standing, looking lost. But it was just an unfortunate situation. “It’s a big motivation, a huge motivation, because I feel like we kind of got back in that game (rallying from a 27-3 deficit), and to end the game like that, that’s not what we want to be remembered as.” They’ll have a chance to craft a better ending with Bowles, who David is convinced at some point would have taken a head-coaching job elsewhere had the Bucs not tabbed him to replace Arians. “If it wasn’t here, it was eventually going to be somewhere else,” David said. “But he’s definitely a guy you’re going to go out there and play hard for four quarters of a football game.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.