By applying some imagination and old-fashioned business sense to a chronic problem, St. Petersburg is making noticeable, steady improvements to dilapidated properties throughout the city. Instead of letting vacant lots and deteriorating homes be a continual drag on public resources and home values, the properties are being rehabilitated, and even converted to affordable housing in a few cases. It’s an approach worth applauding — and replicating. Eight years ago, St. Petersburg’s code enforcement director, James Corbett, began compiling a list of unkempt vacant lots and homes beyond repair, with an intent to force the owners to deal with code violations and pay off their liens. In many cases, the buildings were unlivable, and the liens totaled more than the value of the land. Many of the owners on the rundown properties didn’t live in St. Petersburg. In one instance, Corbett identified an out-of-town real estate firm that owned 60 such “zombie properties” it had purchased in tax sales. “My thought was, let’s foreclose,” Corbett told Florida Trend magazine, which like the Tampa Bay Times, is owned by the Times Publishing Co. “It’s not like we’re kicking some family out of their house. This is literally a large company that doesn’t care anything about this city, and one of two things will happen: They’ll either pay their liens, or their properties will be sold and someone else will get them.” Under then-Mayor Rick Kriseman, the city set about demolishing more than 100 abandoned structures and repaired another 62. But even with the eyesores out of the way, that meant the city was on the hook to keep the lots mowed — an onerous job in the summer months. Instead of relegating the neglected properties to a file to continue piling up code violations, Corbett got aggressive and sought to foreclose against the owners. It’s a creative and potentially controversial tactic for local governments, but in St. Petersburg it has paid off. Under threat of foreclosure, owners would either make repairs or let the parcels go. The foreclosed properties went to auction, where at least at first they were snatched up for $5,000 or $6,000, according to the attorney who handled the foreclosure cases. The process spurred renewal and redevelopment on previously blighted properties. As Corbett was shepherding his plan, the local real estate market was growing hotter and hotter — and further out of reach for lower-income homebuyers. That created yet another opportunity: The city took some of the foreclosed lots and transferred them to nonprofit developers, who built homes and sold them to first-time buyers. So far 50 lots have been developed this way — not a magic bullet to Tampa Bay’s widespread affordable housing crisis, but progress nonetheless. Corbett, 41, is a St. Petersburg native who grew up in the neighborhoods he’s now helping to revitalize. His business-minded approach has led to measurable improvements. That list of 800-plus abandoned properties is now down to 110. The cost in attorneys’ fees to file foreclosure cases was $1.3 million — more than made up for by the $4.4 million of unpaid fines collected. But Corbett’s stance is not without empathy. When homes have fallen into disrepair because the owners can’t afford the maintenance, the city has helped them settle their liens and debts. Cities have a responsibility not just to enforce codes but to follow through by holding property owners responsible and even doing the work to maintain properties that have been abandoned. It’s an age-old challenge for small governments that, if ignored, leads to neighborhood blight and depressed property values. St. Petersburg has pursued innovative solutions to bring dilapidated parcels up to code — and the results are making the city more livable and accessible to everyone. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.