A forensic science specialist with the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office has been terminated after an internal investigation determined that she had falsified forensic reports, the agency said in a news release Monday. An administrative review board found that Shantele Dixon, 35, mishandled two processing requests for separate criminal investigations she was assigned in November, the release said. Dixon retrieved two items from the agency’s Property and Evidence Division on Nov. 29 in order to complete processing requests she had been assigned in two separate criminal cases, the Sheriff’s Office said. She then gave the items to another specialist because her shift was about to end. However, Dixon did not transfer custody of the items to the other specialist, which is “a violation of both agency policy and procedure and accreditation standards,” the news release said. The other specialist processed one of the items using a cyanoacrylate, or superglue, fuming chamber and M-star, which the Sheriff’s Office describes as “a luminescence dye stain chemical.” The specialist then processed the other item using the fuming chamber and black magnetic powder, the agency said. The specialist then returned the items, along with the processing request and notes, to Dixon’s secure locker. Authorities have not said whether the other specialist is under investigation at this time. Dixon reviewed the notes and reprocessed both items Dec. 2, using M-star on one of the items and black magnetic powder on the other, the release said. She then falsified several details in the agency’s report writing system, the Sheriff’s Office said. Dixon claimed she used the cyanoacrylate fuming chamber Nov. 29, when the other specialist had completed that step, according to the agency news release. Additionally, she failed to note that one item was processed with M-star and another with black magnetic powder on the same day, the agency said. Dixon also falsely stated that one of the items had been processed with M-star and an alternative light source, when the item was only processed with black magnetic powder, the release said. In her notebook, Dixon repeated this false statement and also failed to mention that another specialist had completed some of the processing. Dixon admitted to “cutting corners,” the agency said, and she acknowledged that the falsified reports could negatively impact authorities’ ability to prosecute criminal charges in each of the cases, the agency said. Dixon was hired Oct. 19, 2011. Her termination was effective Monday, the agency said. This is a developing story. Stay with tampabay.com for updates.