American Stage has announced the lineup for its 2022-23 season. Themed, “This is America, This is American Stage,” the season marks the theater company’s 45th anniversary. To celebrate, single-ticket prices for mainstage performances will be lowered to $45. The lineup includes Tony Award-winning musical Green Day’s American Idiot and The Colored Museum, winner of the 1998 NAACP Image Award. Tony Award-winning musical Ragtime will be the American Stage in the Park production at Demens Landing Park. American Stage is continuing its Under 20 program, which allows people younger than 20 to attend one of the mainstage shows for free. It’s also bringing back its Flex Pass program, which allows patrons to buy blocks of 4, 8 or 12 tickets that can be used in any combination to any mainstage productions. Five-play season subscriptions are also available. Additional programming including 21st Century Voices: New Play Festival and First Mondays, free monthly staged readings, will continue, with dates and information coming at a later time. American Stage in the Park’s current production, Footloose – The Musical, is on stage now through May 8 at Demens Landing Park. Dutchman, the final play of the 2021-22 season, opens June 29 and runs through July 31. The Obie Award-winning play explores race and identity in America. The theater’s producing artistic director Rajendra Ramoon Maharaj left the company this week. The board named managing director CJ Zygadlo as interim executive director, and will conduct a nationwide search for a new artistic leader. Maharaj was supposed to direct Dutchman, so according to American Stage board executive committee member Gina Clement, the company is currently vetting artists to direct the play. Here is the lineup for the 2022-23 season: Green Day’s American Idiot (Sept. 7-Oct. 2): Based on rock band Green Day’s concept album, three friends struggle to find meaning in a post-9/11 world. The Colored Museum (Nov. 2-27): George C. Wolfe’s satire goes through 11 “exhibits” that explore African American stereotypes and what it means to be African American. Crimes of the Heart (Jan. 11-Feb. 5, 2023): Beth Henley’s Pulitzer Prize-winning drama uses dark humor and follows three sisters as they escape the past. Ragtime (April 12-May 14, 2023): This Tony Award-winning musical — the selection for the American Stage in the Park production — is set in New York City at the turn of the 20th century. Stories of a stifled housewife, a Jewish immigrant and a Harlem musician are woven together. Disgraced (May 31-June 25, 2023): Ayad Akhtar’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play follows a Pakistani-American lawyer and his white artist wife as they host a dinner party where the conversation escalates and becomes life-altering. A fifth mainstage production will be announced at a later date. Single tickets for mainstage productions go on sale Aug. 1. Tickets for Footloose, Dutchman and subscriptions are on sale now. For more information, call the box office at 727-823-7529 or visit americanstage.org.