TAMPA — Just like interim coach Marty St. Louis did in his playing days, the Canadiens refused to give up. So it was fitting Saturday night that the Canadiens — playing their first game at Amalie Arena since Hall of Famer St. Louis, the former Lightning star, took over the team in February — twice fought back from a two-goal deficit and defeated Tampa Bay 5-4 in a shootout. The loss prevented the Lightning (43-18-7, 93 points) from matching their season-high five-game winning streak. It also dropped them to third in the Atlantic Division behind first-place Florida (100) and Toronto (93), which holds the tiebreak over Tampa Bay with more regulation wins. Mental errors — turnovers, mismanaging the puck, breakaways — plagued the Lightning. “We grinded them this week,” coach Jon Cooper said of his players. “Three games, we practiced every day, we ran the guys hard. We knew this (game) might be a little dicey, but we got to fight through this stuff. … We (had) a lot of really bad mental mistakes.” On Montreal’s first goal, with the Lightning leading 2-0 in the second period, forward Cole Caufield scored on a 2-on-0 breakaway. On the Canadiens’ second goal, with the Lightning leading 3-1 later in the second, traffic clogged up Lightning goaltender Brian Elliott’s view and allowed defenseman Corey Schueneman’s shot from the point to slip through. On the Canadiens’ third goal, which tied the score at 3 in the second, Steven Stamkos dropped a backward pass right onto Montreal forward Mike Hoffman’s stick, leading to a breakaway goal from forward Josh Anderson. On Montreal’s fourth goal, which tied the score at 4 in the third, forward Jesse Ylonen was left alone in the circle, and he put a one-timer past Elliott (27 saves). “Just egregious mental errors really hurt us,” Cooper said. “The turnovers were inexcusable, the odd man rushes against. … I don’t doubt our team’s work ethic, but sometimes our mental judgment can be questioned, and it was definitely (Saturday).” Said forward Brayden Point: “Just missed assignments. I don’t know if it was fatigue or what, but just sloppy.” The Canadiens outscored the Lightning 4-1 at even strength. After Stamkos’ game-opening goal at even strength, Tampa Bay’s next three goals came on special teams. Anthony Cirelli’s shorthanded goal put the Lightning up 2-0 with less than seven minutes left in the first period. Nikita Kucherov and Point scored on both Lightning power-play opportunities in the second period. Tampa Bay was 2-for-3 with the man advantage overall. Montreal goaltender Jake Allen finished with 37 saves. Canadiens forward Nick Suzuki had the only goal in the shootout. “We scored four goals, and regardless how you get them, we had four. (You) can’t lose games when you score four,” Cooper said. “Something’s going on if you are.” The Lightning’s point streak did continue. Tampa Bay has nine points in its past five games.  “If we’re being honest,” Point said, “we’re lucky to get one (point).” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.