Today, as our state faces many challenges, we are too often reminded why young leadership is needed now more than ever before. We were both fortunate to have participated in the first-ever annual conference for the Take Action Institute, a student-led initiative from Florida’s Holocaust Memorial Resource and Education Center. There, young leaders from across our state, including Leah, a student at Rollins College and part of the Bonner Leader Program, came together to learn and show their passion for leadership and activism. As Anna said at the conference, “When you lead service to a common cause and without ego, it is remarkable how you can find yourself in a community with real power to make a change. The power of this community was in full force in Orlando and should inspire us in Tallahassee. In many ways, the future is now.” The Take Action Institute is guided by the lessons of the Holocaust with a vision for a just and caring community. The institute supports student movements that take action against all forms of prejudice and bigotry. During the conference, student leaders from across the state, with a shared passion for social justice, were able to have conversations with top experts about politics, advocacy, strategy and media. In a joint partnership with the USC Shoah Foundation, research from the conference showed that these students reported feeling hopeful about their ability to be agents of change, inspired by the other youth activists, and ready to make a positive impact towards increased equity and justice in our communities. Recently, Gov. Ron DeSantis signed HB 1557, dubbed by opponents as the “don’t say gay” bill, and the Florida Legislature has also passed legislation making it easier to ban books with essential stories that young adults need to be exposed to. This attack on simple human rights, dignity and education reflects a Legislature that is not in tune with the priorities and concerns of young people. This legislation attempts to erase conversations on race in all academic and business settings, and targets the identity of LGBTQ+ people in educational spaces. The legislation directly impacts the youth of Florida, and while students may not be able to vote; they still have a voice — and a loud one at that. Many students organized walkouts across the state have protested this legislation, which speaks volumes to the efficacy and commitment of our generation. Generation Z leaders are more deliberate, collaborative, diverse, and inclusive than previous generations. Young leaders, contrary to popular belief, are more interested in “counsel culture” than “cancel culture.” People are called in before they are called out. We also know that there are ways to resolve issues with compassion and honest communication about complex topics. We understand the value of building organizations with teams that reflect the full spectrum of humanity and listen when they share their honest perspectives on past and current issues and triumphs. Young leaders innately understand this, and we can all learn from them. Rep. Anna V. Eskamani, born and raised in Orlando, is a daughter of immigrants and was elected to serve House District 47 in 2018 and was re-elected in 2020. Leah Hornik is a student at Rollins College, where she is a member of the Bonner Leaders program. She has spent the last three years volunteering at the Holocaust Memorial Resource and Education Center.