Last month, Tampa insurers BRP Group struck a deal to acquire a California agency that it said will add annual revenues of $81.8 million to its ledger sheet. It’s the largest acquisition in the company’s 11-year history. It’s also par for the course in how BRP Group does business. In 2020 and 2021, the publicly owned company spent $2.1 billion acquiring 32 firms large and small, adding more than $440 million in revenues. As a result, BRP Group and its subsidiary, Baldwin Risk Partners, have doubled business since 2019. Back then, the company had 600 employees, including 200 risk advisors; 50 offices in seven states; and 450,000 clients worldwide. Three years later, the company was up to nearly 2,800 full-time and 100 part-time worker, including 460 risk advisors; 120 offices in 20 states; and 900,000 clients worldwide. “Our first and foremost goal is building a business that can organically grow double digits year in and year out,” CEO Trevor Baldwin said. In so doing, BRP Group becomes “a destination employer for our industry’s very best professionals.” Baldwin’s father Lowry co-founded the company in 2011 and still serves as chairman. Their aggressive acquisition strategy isn’t that uncommon in the insurance world, but it still brings challenges as BRP Group keeps adding new firms and clients while trying to grow its own organic revenue. To help do that, BRP Group recently announced it was entering the Florida homeowners insurance market. Baldwin said the company will grow that business slowly, but he sees a void that BRP Group and all its newly acquired talent can fill. “You take care of your colleagues, they take care of your clients,” he said. “You take care of your clients, and everything else takes care of itself.” Over a recent Zoom interview, Baldwin talked about how BRP Group manages its many acquisitions and the problems facing Florida homeowners insurance. This conversation has been edited for length and clarity. Insurance is by its nature a more conservative industry. Is buying 16 firms a year a conservative approach to growth? Relative to some of our peers, it is. I’d say there’s about 40 active acquirers in the insurance distribution space, some of which are doing upwards of 50, 60, 100 acquisitions a year. We tend to focus on larger-scale, higher quality businesses that have track records of double-digit growth, and existing owners that aren’t looking to retire, but see the value in joining forces with a larger-scale insurance enterprise. The combination of our talent, our know-how, our collective wisdom, enables us to accomplish things together that we would not be able to do otherwise on our own. You’ve acquired insurance companies, tech-focused companies, companies that deal with both Medicare patients and high-net-worth individuals. It seems like a pretty broad portfolio. Our focus is on being able to have a platform that enables us to serve our clients across the continuum of their life cycle, both from a personal and professional perspective. Everything from the relatively nascent college graduate that’s moving into their own apartment and needs renter’s insurance; to highly successful executives and families who have complex insurance needs; to a nascent venture capital-backed startup; to a large-scale global business. And everything in between. Do rising interest rates hinder your ability to make acquisitions? No. As interest rates increase, it impacts the cost of debt. It could have a downstream impact on valuations. But being a public company, having relatively broad-based access to the capital markets, and relative to our private equity peers having relatively modest leverage, we feel really good about how we’re positioned. You have a fully dedicated onboarding team that you call the Navigators. When you acquire a company, how do the Navigators spring into action? We develop a tailored welcome website for all new colleagues, so on announcement day, they get access to that to read and learn about our culture, our organization. We’ve got an HR team that typically goes on site and spends time welcoming those new colleagues into the organization. We integrate them into our IT and cybersecurity infrastructure. We educate them on the broader platform and the breadth and depth of the resources and capabilities that they have access to. It’s a fairly exhaustive, 9- to 12-month process to fully integrate those firms into the BRP ecosystem and culture. You’ve said the homeowners market in Florida is in the worst shape you’ve ever seen it in your career. Can you explain that, and explain your decision to hop into it? The industry is paying out about $1.20 for every dollar of revenue it collects in Florida homeowners (insurance). The simple economics of that business model don’t work. There’s a number of structural and regulatory issues related to some loopholes that create challenges for Florida homeowners around roof claims and other issues that enable the homeowners insurance policy to be used in ways that it was not designed or priced for. We’ve seen four or five insolvencies of Florida homeowners companies over the past six months. It’s likely we’ll see more. There are pockets of Florida housing that can be profitably insured, and we feel like we’ve got a good read on that niche. Capacity is restricted, coverage terms are being pulled back, prices are increasing dramatically, and we think we can solve a real challenge for a portion of our clients that have the right underwriting characteristics and attributes. Florida is a tantalizing market, but finding the key to that lock seems like a real challenge. Without any real reform, the Florida homeowners market generated about $14 billion of premiums last year. We believe it would need to increase to about $17 billion to achieve break-even, and probably $19 to $20 billion in order to deliver sustainable profitability that would attract long-term capital to the space. That would suggest another one-third increase in homeowners prices before we reach a level of sustainability. Do rising home and property values ultimately mean you’re seeing more in premiums? That will deliver more premiums, but I’d say that’s on a risk-adjusted basis, that $20 billion. So as home values increase, insurance premiums naturally increase in line with them, but the cost to repair and replace them does also. So it doesn’t fix the underlying economics. If anything, with the inflation we’re seeing, it’s just going to exacerbate the issues.