ST. PETERSBURG — Josh Lowe hadn’t done much in his first two weeks since being added to the Rays’ roster following the late spring trade of Austin Meadows. Manager Kevin Cash said before Wednesday’s game in Chicago that he wasn’t at all concerned about the rookie outfielder’s slow start, which included a .162 average, one extra-base hit and a team-high 15 strikeouts. And then Lowe, 24, went out and backed up his manager’s confidence, smacking a double and an RBI triple in an 8-2, rain-shortened win over the Cubs. “I feel good,” Lowe said. “Maybe a little early I tried to put some pressure on myself that’s not really necessary. “... But being around this group, it really helps me to relax when you have really good hitters (Nos.) 1 through 9 in the lineup. It’s a really long season. Like I’ve said before, it’s not how you do in one or two games, it’s the course of 162 games. So I’m feeling really good.” Cash said it’s relatively normal for rookies to struggle the first time they get extended playing time in the majors. “Really totally fine where he’s at,” Cash said. “I think we can all appreciate that this is a different level. It’s a more challenging level. I would expect that he’s going to be progressively getting better. “There’s a lot of young players that come up, we’re watching them right now on other teams, that come in with a lot of hype and it just takes them a little bit to find their way. It’s more odd for the ones that don’t, that just kind of slip right in and pick up where they left off from Triple-A.” Kluber set for more Corey Kluber worked a solid five innings in his last start Saturday at the White Sox, and the Rays would be happy to see that again Friday, when the veteran free agent faces the Red Sox for the first time since Aug. 20, 2018. “He’s been really, really good for us,” Cash said. “Got to that five-inning mark; I would anticipate that we’ll probably stay right there, five-six innings with him.” Kluber, 36, said he feels good and that it’s “always important to keep the lines of communication open” with Cash, pitching coach Kyle Snyder and head athletic trainer Joe Benge on how feels, good or bad. “I think that’s the easiest way to avoid big hiccups,” he said. Miscellany Given recent performances and workload, Cash said “right now might be the best shape our pitching has been in, going into even before opening day.” Phoenix Sanders was set to pitch the sixth Wednesday before the game was called. … Since the Rays were on the road for the league-wide April 15 commemoration, they will honor Jackie Robinson on Friday. All fans will get a Robinson No. 42 hat. … A segment on Brett Phillips making a surprise visit Thursday to the home of Chloe Grimes, an 8-year-old fan battling cancer, is slated to air Friday on the CBS Evening News. ... At 7-6, the Rays actually are off to a better start than in the past two seasons when they won the AL East, going 5-8 last year and 6-7 in 2020. … The Rays are hitting .305 with runners in scoring position in their seven wins and .220 in their six losses. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.