A way to handle student debt Biden taking ‘hard look’ at student loan forgiveness | April 29 There is much talk of forgiving college debt in various amounts. As someone who went to college in the 1960s, I have long ago paid back what I borrowed. I do not feel that the government should forgive the debt. What Washington should do is buy all college debt and charge the same rate as the government is paying on 10-year bonds. The greatest problem many have in paying back their debt is the high interest that lenders are charging. By nearly eliminating the interest, the payments would be substantially reduced. Earl Waters, St. Petersburg Same old, same old The gap between perceptions and reality | Column, April 28 I was hoping that the column by Cal Thomas last week was a one-time event, but I see now that it’s not. I’m familiar with his columns over the years in other newspapers, and I see nothing has changed. He starts with a general premise, “Never underestimate the ignorance of the vast American electorate,” then uses those who voted for Joe Biden as the example. Now he is pondering whether there should be a “test” for those who can vote. In July 2017 I responded to a similar idea with a letter printed in these pages. “When were character and virtue ever a requirement to vote (now include knowledge), and what standard of measure would we use? Maybe we should only allow property owners to vote, or how about using credit scores?” There are far better conservative columnists the Tampa Bay Times could choose over Cal Thomas. Jim Stout, Dade City Yes, we are better off Better off? Really? | Letter, April 29 A letter to the editor asks, “Is the country better off now?” The writer then goes on to opine: “I don’t know anyone who can believe it is.” We are now experiencing record job gains, wage gains for low-income workers, and GDP growth not seen in decades (despite the recent blip). Also, we are out of Afghanistan. Inflation is surging globally amid the war in Ukraine and persistent pandemic disruptions. I might add that we still have a pandemic, and the response to it was poorly managed by the previous administration. Let’s not even dissect the optics of their trying to blackmail Ukraine regarding military aid in exchange for political dirt. None of this fits the narrative of the rage machine. Yet, all is true. And, yes, I believe we are better off. Terry R. Arnold, Treasure Island