CHICAGO — The Rays needed a little help in breaking out of an offensive malaise and snap a losing streak that had extended to four games. White Sox starter Vince Velasquez offered that up with an ugly first-inning performance Sunday. And the Rays took advantage, scoring four and rolling to a 9-3 win. “Coming into the game, having the offense going a little bit quiet here lately, (we) needed to find a way to put some runs on the board,’’ manager Kevin Cash said. “We didn’t do it by knocking the cover off the ball, but you’ll take it however. Good teams find ways when they’re presenting opportunities for you, and we did that.’’ That they did, parlaying three singles, three walks (two with the bases loaded) and an error by Velasquez on a fielder’s choice comebacker into four runs, stringing together good at-bats. Regardless of how they got them, several Rays said playing from ahead made a huge difference. “When you see the scoreboard say 4-0 after the first inning, it gives you a lot more confidence,’’ outfielder Randy Arozarena, who had a single in the first and three hits total, more than in his previous 20 at-bats combined, said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “Hopefully we can get to start every game 4-0 so that we can continue to have that confidence later on in the game.’’ That is asking a bit much, but their play was noticeably crisper than it had been. “We did a good job,’’ shortstop Wander Franco, who started the rally, said via Navarro. “I think we need to keep on playing with that same attitude and that energy.’’ They showed it in pretty much all phases. Rookie leftfielder Josh Lowe robbed leadoff man Tim Anderson of a home run to keep the Sox from grabbing momentum back in the bottom of the first, and the Rays committed no errors after making six over their previous six games. Five Rays pitchers combined on a three-hitter, though Chris Mazza — who was awarded the win by the official scorer — walked five of the 15 he faced over a shaky 2⅓ innings. But the other four — opener J.P. Feyereisen, an impressively sharp Jalen Beeks, Ryan Thompson and rookie Tommy Romero — were perfect until Romero allowed a solo homer with one out in the ninth. Cash said “the pitching was outstanding” overall and was especially pleased with Beeks, who replaced Mazza with the Sox threatening in the fifth and got the game back under control. “Beeks, he’s nasty,’’ Cash said. “I mean, he’s really throwing the ball well. We’ve got a lot of conversations ahead of us just about his workload and coming back from (Tommy John surgery that sidelined him all of 2021), but he’s definitely healthy. Appreciate him coming in, in a big inning, big situation and calming it down.’’ And the offense didn’t shut down, rallying for four more runs in the eighth. Francisco Mejia singled in two, Franco and Arozarena each doubled in one, and Kevin Kiermaier singled in another in the ninth. “Happy that we pulled out a win,’’ Cash said. “Three or four losses in a row can frustrate any club.’’ Now the Rays have to try to carry their offensive outburst over, as they are in the unusually convenient situation of not having to travel after a Sunday game as they open a series Monday against the other Chicago team. “It was great to have crooked numbers, we know that that’s what our guys do,’' Beeks said. “Our guys can swing it. They had an uncharacteristic four-game stretch. It’s been a mixture of pitching and hitting and defense and everything, but it’s nice to get a big win today and going into Chicago — Cubs. It’s nice to get rolling in the right direction.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.