Tampa Bay Rays owner Stuart Sternberg has asked a circuit court judge to combine two lawsuits brought by the team’s minority owners against his businesses into one. Attorneys for Sternberg filed the motion to consolidate Wednesday in Pinellas-Pasco Circuit Court, arguing that since both cases involve the same plaintiffs and “questions of fact,” consolidation would save time, money and resources; and “eliminate the risk of inconsistent judicial determinations of fact.” At issue are two suits alleging Sternberg and his companies hid information from five minority partners as he sought to expand his stake in and control of the team. Those partners — Robert Kleinert, Gary Markel, the MacDougald Family Limited Partnership, Stephen M. Waters and a trust bearing Waters’ name — collectively own about 9.6 percent of the club. The first suit, filed in May 2021, argued that Sternberg was engaged in fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, and called for a full audit of the team’s finances. In March, a judge ruled that most of that lawsuit should go to arbitration — but one count, seeking to remove Sternberg as a general partner, could move toward a trial. Earlier this month, Sternberg’s attorneys moved to have that count dismissed, arguing that it did “not allege any specific wrongful misconduct that had an adverse effect on the partnership,” and that Sternberg’s “day-to-day operation of the club” constituted “nothing more than the appropriate exercise” of his responsibilities as outlined by their partnership agreement. The second suit, filed in February, argued that two limited liability corporations held by Sternberg, as well as a partnership managed by Rays general counsel and senior vice president of administration John Higgins, held back key financial documents related to revenue and taxable income. Sternberg’s attorneys have not yet filed a response to that suit. The motion to consolidate the lawsuits outlines a half-dozen allegations common to both, including that some important documents were not disclosed, and others appeared to have been “manipulated,” “altered” and “backdated.” The motion argues that consolidating would “eliminate duplicative trials” and the “possibility of inconsistent verdicts.” A Rays spokesperson said Sternberg and the team declined to comment.