CHICAGO — Randy Arozarena has several reasons to be frustrated, with his early season struggles at the plate — hitting .182 with 10 strikeouts and no walks in 33 plate appearances — and his Rays’ rough 4-5 start. But he said the reason for his first career ejection Saturday was isolated to his significant objection — throwing his bat — to a third-strike call with the score 2-1 in favor of the White Sox in the sixth inning of a 3-2 Rays loss. “I think it was just the moment,’' Arozarena said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “It was a tight game at that point, and I thought the umpire made a bad call. So I was upset about it. “I thought it was low. We’re both just human beings. I thought he got the call wrong, and I shouldn’t have thrown the bat.’' Manager Kevin Cash said he agreed with Arozarena that the pitch was close but acknowledged “ideally, there’s probably a better way to show frustration right there.’' The ejection was the second notable thing Arozarena did in the game. The first was a mad dash in the first inning somewhat reminiscent of his wild 2020 World Series run. “Yeah, almost like it,’’ he said. On Saturday, Arozarena reached on an infield single. As the throw went wide, he took off for second. He would have been out, but he tripped, causing Sox shortstop Tim Anderson to miss the tag. Arozarena, whose helmet came off, then scrambled safely to second. In Game 4 of the ’20 World Series against the Dodgers, Arozarena scored the winning run after falling down rounding third and sliding headfirst into home. Rays acquire reliever Javy Guerra The Rays made a move to bolster their bullpen, acquiring right-hander Javy Guerra from the Padres for cash considerations. Guerra, 26, was designated for assignment Tuesday, having pitched in only one game. A former top shortstop prospect converted to pitching in 2019, Guerra is 1-0 with an 8.46 ERA in 27 big-league games over four seasons. He missed most of 2021 with an elbow injury. Besides a 97-98 mph fastball and a good slider, Cash didn’t know much about him: “He’s got good stuff, but he hasn’t probably just had the reps yet as far as a reliever.’' To make room on the 40-man roster, the Rays shifted Shane Baz from the 10-day to the 60-day injured list, meaning he can’t return from spring arthroscopic elbow surgery until June 6, which Cash said was about the target date anyway. Guerra, who is out of minor-league options, will join the Rays soon, and they will have to drop someone from the active roster. Guerra started his career as a skilled defensive shortstop — traded as a highly touted prospect from the Red Sox to the Padres with current Ray Manuel Margot for reliever Craig Kimbrel in November 2015 — and made it to the majors in 2018, but he didn’t hit enough. Miscellany Reliever J.P. Feyereisen is to make his first pro start Sunday as the opener against the White Sox, with Tommy Romero, who struggled in his Tuesday debut, expected to pitch bulk innings. … Cash said the Rays were leaning toward starting Shane McClanahan on Monday at the Cubs and postponing their plan to get an extra day off for some of the starters. If so, Josh Fleming and Drew Rasmussen would likely follow, though Cash said there was still a possibility that Ryan Yarbrough — sidelined by left groin tightness and who didn’t accompany the team to Chicago — could pitch Wednesday against the Cubs. … In their 1-5 stretch, the Rays are hitting 12-for-54 (.222) with runners in scoring position. … Hot-swinging lefty Ji-Man Choi didn’t start against right-hander Michael Kopech on Saturday but pinch-hit in the ninth. Cash said it was “just an off-day” and not related to Choi’s right ankle getting kicked by Leury Garcia on a play at first Friday. … First-pitch temperature was 44 degrees. … Wander Franco got his first partial day off, serving as the DH while Taylor Walls played shortstop. Contact Marc Topkin at mtopkin@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Rays. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.