The blenders will be churning again when the Tampa Bay Margarita & Music Festival returns from a two-year pandemic pause. On Tuesday, organizers announced it is not only returning for Memorial Day weekend but it has lined up Lynyrd Skynyrd as its headliner, supported by Elle King and the Village People. The festival will be May 28 at Julian B. Lane Park in downtown Tampa with dozens of varieties of margaritas, a food market and a fireworks show. “The 2022 festival would have been our 10th year anniversary if it wasn’t for the cancellation,” said Monica Varner, a partner at Big City Events, the festival’s producer. “We’re looking forward to celebrating our return and hope to make this the biggest festival yet.” The festival, which began in 2012, grew quickly in popularity. In 2019 it featured headliners Nelly and Cold War Kids and more than 15,000 attendees. The pandemic came along, and the 2020 and 2021 festivals were canceled. Classic Southern rockers Lynyrd Skynyrd bring their “Big Wheels Keep on Turnin’” tour, with signature songs like Sweet Home Alabama and Free Bird, which Rolling Stone said was “easily the most requested live song in existence.” The band’s current lineup consists of Gary Rossington — who is the only remaining founding member — founding vocalist Ronnie Van Zant’s brother Johnny Van Zant, guitarist Rickey Medlocke, drummer Michael Cartellone, guitarist Mark Matejka, keyboardist Peter Keys and bassist Keith Christopher. Multi-platinum recording artist Elle King recently reunited with Miranda Lambert on the infectious Drunk (And I Don’t Wanna Go Home). It debuted at No. 1 on Billboard’s rock and country charts. King’s breakthrough single Ex’s & Oh’s earned her two Grammy nominations and was certified platinum four times. From the way-back machine, the Village People is celebrating more than 40 years of getting audiences to throw their arms in the air for the Y.M.C.A. The members have changed over the years, but original member Victor Willis (who dresses as a cop) is back at the helm with hits like Can’t Stop the Music, Macho Man and In the Navy. The group has sold more than 100 million records worldwide. Presale tickets will be $20 for a limited time at tampamargaritafest.com and will increase to $40 at the door. VIP tickets range from $125 to $500 and feature different levels of amenities, such as unlimited margaritas, air-conditioned restrooms, day beds and reserved seating. If you go Tampa Bay Margarita & Music Festival: With margaritas and food pairings, the festival will feature Lynyrd Skynyrd as its headliner, along with Elle King and the Village People at 1-11 p.m. May 28 at Julian B. Lane Riverfront Park, 1001 N Boulevard, Tampa. Tickets are $20-$40; VIP $125-$500 at tampamargaritafest.com.