DADE CITY — A proposal to build a 550-space recreational vehicle resort in remote East Pasco that became an epic battle to protect the bucolic nature of the area ended this week when county commissioners voted to approve the project. For nearly three years, residents have fought the development on a 132-acre parcel that fronts on Interstate 75 and Lake Iola Road. They argued that the proposal would change the character of their rural neighborhood, lower property values, increase traffic and threaten bike riders who frequent the scenic roads. They also aimed criticism at County Commissioner Ron Oakley, because his sister sold the property to the developer and because he has been an outspoken advocate for the resort. Oakley, who on Tuesday made the motion to approve the project, said he did not know of the sale in advance and did not make any deals with the buyer. Several residents argued he had a conflict of interest. In December 2018, Vcare Consultants Inc. purchased the property for $1.2 million from Oakley’s sister, Ann Oakley Maggard, and her husband, Dale Edward Maggard, the brother of State Rep. Randy Maggard, R-Dade City. Commission chairperson Kathryn Starkey reminded speakers several times that they should not address a particular commissioner because it was against the commission’s public comment rules. Ultimately county attorney Jeffrey Steinsnyder said that Oakley had no conflict of interest in the case. One resident also took on two of the developer’s primary representatives on Tuesday, attorney Barbara Wilhite and consultant Frances Chandler Marino. Wilhite was an assistant county attorney and Marino was a consultant for Pasco County who helped craft its rural development rules. Nearby resident Jill Yelverton said she found it interesting that those who helped write the county’s comprehensive growth plan were now representing the project. “You know how to untie knots that you knotted to begin with,” she said. “That’s kind of unfair.” Some of the argument against the resort also centered around whether the project was residential or commercial. Ultimately planners said that it was commercial. While the county has rural protection standards for residential construction, it has not yet approved such standards for commercial developments. A citizens advisory group that was formed to help make recommendations on those commercial standards was disbanded in January at Oakley’s request. He told fellow commissioners that the group had been too negative. The chairperson for that group, Lisa Moretti, has been one of the most vocal opponents of the plan. “This project isn’t compatible with our community,” Moretti said Tuesday. “It’s going to change our way of life.” She argued that the county should not approve the development because it doesn’t meet the county’s rules and it will be detrimental to the residents of rural East Pasco. “You’re forcing out long-term residents who came here for a rural life, all to please an out-of-town developer who won’t be sticking around, doesn’t work in the community, doesn’t care about the rural area, who only cares about one thing, his investment and his money,” she said. “We built a community. We ask that you don’t let him tear it down.” Wilhite said that, while the project had no commercial guidelines to follow because they did not yet exist, the developer did agree to follow some of the residential guidelines and even exceeded requirements to be sure that there was significant landscaping within the resort. She also said that the developer has been working over the last couple of years to respond to residents’ specific concerns. And she said that the concentration of RV spaces on the land was smaller than a nearby park outside the rural protection area. Marino said she found that the project fit in the rural area because it was adjacent to the interstate and near an interchange where 48,500 cars pass each day. A resort for recreational vehicles, she said, “its a rural use.” Commissioner Mike Moore said he and his family often traveled in a recreational vehicle. The parks for such vehicles were often in rural areas near some of the most environmentally sensitive locations in the country. He said he supported the project because its placement made sense to him. “This is going to be a very nice park,” Oakley said. Commissioners voted unanimously to make the change in the county’s comprehensive plan that would allow the resort. Commissioner Jack Mariano was absent. The vote was 3 to 1 for the rezoning on the parcel. Commissioner Christina Fitzpatrick voted no. While she congratulated the developer for working with residents to blunt some of the effects they feared from the project, she said she was concerned that the rezoning would set an unwanted precedent in the rural protection zone.