ST. PETERSBURG — Through the first nine innings Saturday, it looked as if the Rays were going to make history on the mound, as six of their pitchers teamed to not allow a hit. That narrative changed in the 10th, when the Red Sox got a couple of hits and two runs. But then it did so again a few minutes later when veteran Kevin Kiermaier made history at the plate, delivering the first walkoff homer of his career, giving the Rays a wild 3-2 win. “You dream of a lot of things once you get to the big leagues, and for me, I wanted to hit a walkoff homer,’’ Kiermaier said. “I’ve never done it at any level — backyard baseball, minor leagues, big leagues. And today was the day. I am so ecstatic, so thrilled. I’ll never forget this moment, this day.’’ The memories turned out a whole lot better for the Rays (8-7) than if they had not rallied in the 10th, the idea of wasting nine no-hit innings among baseball’s most cardinal sins. “That’s such a hard thing to do in a game,’’ said reliever Andrew Kittredge, who worked the eighth and ninth innings. “It definitely leaves a good feeling after a game like that. To come up on the short end would be pretty devastating. “So KK picking us up big there, that’s just a huge moment for us and just an awesome team win. I mean, that’s probably one of the coolest wins I’ve ever been a part of.’’ There was much that went into it before a boisterous Tropicana Field crowd of 19,137. Working backward from Kiermaier’s first homer since August, there was Taylor Walls’ hustle to first that extended the 10th, two plays by shortstop Wander Franco to keep the no-hitter intact early, and the remarkable work on the mound that saw a planned bullpen day nearly becoming one of the franchise’s most memorable on the mound. But as J.P. Feyereisen, Javy Guerra, Jeffrey Springs, Jason Adam, Ryan Thompson and Kittredge teamed to hold the Sox hitless, their Rays mates weren’t doing much offensively, managing just two hits, which added to the drama. That’s what got the game to the 10th and because of the rules, the Sox having a runner on second base. Bobby Dalbec led off the inning by tripling off Matt Wisler to score Jackie Bradley Jr., the ball ticking off the glove of rightfielder Brett Phillips, who came up just short of makiing a running and sliding catch. “I was 100 percent all-out,’’ Phillips said. “That’s all I had, right? And full extension. Unfortunately, it didn’t land in my glove, but there’s nothing else I could have done, right?’’ That scored one run, and Christian Vazquez followed with a sac fly to make it 2-0. But the Rays rallied. Randy Arozarena, who started the inning on second, was balked to third with two outs by Hansel Robles. Walls hit a sharp grounder to second, and his hustle led Boston’s Trevor Story to make an errant throw. “Shoutout to him for extending that inning, running hard, putting the pressure on the defense,’’ Kiermaier said. “A grounder to second you’re out 98-99 percent of the time, but that guy’s a gamer.’’ Walls stole second, which set up Kiermaier’s dramatic moment. He had some help, using Arozarena’s bat — a 33½-inch, 31½-ounce Chandler model — as he had been since Friday, but Kiermaier did the work. Kiermaier remembered turning on a 3-1 fastball by Robles and seeing it go over the fence, and not much else about his trip around the bases or the wet and wild celebration on the field. As he stood at his locker 15 minutes after the game, he said he still hadn’t caught his breath. “There were no thoughts, I was just trying to hit all the bags,’’ he said. “I should’ve jogged a little bit slower than what I did, but you blackout in those moments. I don’t remember anything besides taking my helmet off and jumping on home plate. I’ve had that dream forever, and it’s a moment no one can ever take away from me and I’m so proud.’’ The pitchers had reason to be proud also, as the Rays have thrown only one official no-hitter in their first 24 seasons, by Matt Garza on July 26, 2010, against Detroit. (They had a game last July 7 when five of their pitchers combined to not allow a hit in the second game of a doubleheader against Cleveland, but it was not recognized as a no-hitter since it was only a seven-inning game, even though that’s what it was scheduled for.) Unlike the momentum and tension that builds as a starter takes a no-hitter into the sixth or seventh inning, it was different with the bullpen brigade. Manager Kevin Cash said he was aware but didn’t really think about it until Kittredge got the 27th out, “cringing” at the potential of it going to waste. “It’s like we’re doing something here really special, but we could also be doing something here really unique, and not in the best way,’’ he said. “So I’m glad that we were able to pull it out. The guys, our pitchers, certainly deserved to shake hands after that game.’’ • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.