Pinellas County teachers should get some extra pay in their April 22 paychecks. The School Board on Tuesday approved a contract providing an average raise of 3.25 percent for all instructional staff, retroactive to July 1. The deal, which the Pinellas Classroom Teachers Association ratified March 31, also covers employees’ share of increased health insurance premiums and rising state pension contributions. It additionally provides teachers with 15 extra hours of paid professional development and allows teachers to get fully paid for unused sick time after 25 years of service rather than 30 years. The sides reached their agreement after eight months of sometimes heated debate. One of the key sticking points centered on longevity supplements for veteran teachers on continuing contracts, whose raises are by law smaller than those on annual contracts. Union leaders called for some extra money for the longtime educators, but district officials argued the idea was not legal, despite it being done in other Florida counties. Before Tuesday’s vote, School Board member Caprice Edmond resurfaced the issue. “In the future, I would like to see consideration for additional increases to veteran teachers’ pay as allowed by law,” Edmond said. In other business, board vice chairperson Lisa Cane noted that some residents had raised concerns about the board’s new public comment policy. She said there was confusion about the part relating to when the chairperson may stop speakers who interfere with the orderly process of board meetings. The board instructed its lawyer to adjust the policy to indicate that wording comes directly from state law. Also Tuesday, the board set a public hearing for June 14 on proposed changes to make the district dress code more gender-neutral. Board member Bill Dudley said the administration also must ensure the rule is enforced evenly at all schools. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.