There is a pink-colored Walmart with Florida Keys-style architecture in the city of Palm Bay, a seafood house that looks like a barn in Florence, Miss., and a barbecue restaurant in nearby Parrish where the wrap-around front porch features vertical white columns reaching to the ceiling. If Hillsborough County Commissioner Stacy White has his way, similar looking commercial buildings could someday dot Lithia and the county’s rural southeastern landscape. Commissioners agreed Tuesday to advance White’s suggestion to create an overlay district for the Lithia vicinity to try to preserve the area’s rural characteristics by guiding the aesthetics of future commercial development and requiring landscaping that utilizes Florida native plants. The district would cover a wide area from the southeastern boundary of the FishHawk community east to the Polk County line and south to the Manatee County border. It would include Lithia, Fort Lonesome, east County Road 672, east State Road 674, the Alafia River State Recreation Area, and the C.W. Bill Young Reservoir. “People are just tired of the cookie-cutter development in this county,” White told the Tampa Bay Times. “You know when an area grows as much and as quickly as southern and eastern Hillsborough County has grown, you can really lose your sense of place pretty quickly.” An overlay district imposes additional regulations on a specific area that covers things such as fencing, buffering and architectural standards for new buildings. It’s hardly a novelty. Hillsborough has more than a dozen other overlay districts, including Citrus Park Village, Brandon Main Street and Riverview’s downtown-uptown district. They don’t always win universal acclaim, either. Some property owners in Brandon pushed back when the county adopted that overlay district a dozen years ago. The Keystone-Odessa overlay withstood a federal court challenge from a developer several years ago, and just last week the Manatee County Commission deleted its overlay for the community of Parrish in the hopes of stimulating more commercial development. The Lithia proposal contains a half-dozen architectural suggestions, including Florida Cracker style, which can include metal roofs atop wood-frame structures; Greek revival, using columns to resemble ancient Greek temples; Italianate, modeled after farmhouses on the Italian countryside; and neoclassical, allowing a combination of architectural styles. It does not apply to residential construction. White acknowledged the area is sparsely populated and the only commercial development could be fast-food restaurants and convenience stores that might be more than a decade away. Even so, he told commissioners Tuesday, the county needed to be proactive to protect the rural flavor of that portion of the county. “This sets the tone for anything that comes up,” said County Commissioner Mariella Smith. Commissioners voted unanimously to schedule public hearings May 19 and June 9 to amend the county’s land development code and add the overlay district.