TAMPA — Two months after Pro Bowl left guard Ali Marpet’s stunning retirement at age 28, the jolt is just now dissipating around Bucs headquarters. “I don’t want to say shocked, but initially a little surprised (at the announcement),” general manager Jason Licht said Tuesday. “But now knowing Ali and the conversations we’ve had, (I) certainly understand and respect his decision.” This was seismic news, though, and while the initial shock may have been absorbed, the foundational crack resulting from that retirement — as well as free-agent guard Alex Cappa’s departure to the Bengals — must be repaired. Marpet’s departure “did (affect strategy) a little bit; that’s why we went and traded for (veteran Patriots guard) Shaq Mason,” Licht said. “And we feel really good about (veteran backup) Aaron Stinnie having that playoff experience that he had when we won the Super Bowl. And (reserves) Nick Leverett, Robert Hainsey — we’ve got some good players that we thought have been doing some good things early on in their careers that there’s going to be a lot of competition.” Question is, do the Bucs want to create more competition — and depth — along the interior offensive line? In addition to adding Mason, will they select a guard — or guard/center hybrid — with the 27th overall pick, or possibly in the second round? If they do, they’ll have an appealing menu from which to select. As many as four guard-center types are projected to go in the first round in some prominent mock drafts. Here are five prospects we believe make the most sense for Tampa Bay: 1. Zion Johnson, Boston College Size: 6-3/312 Measurable of note: Led all offensive linemen with 32 bench-press reps of 225 pounds at NFL scouting combine Less than a week before the draft, Johnson still is widely deemed the top guard prospect. A former zero-star recruit who played his first two seasons at Football Championship Subdivision Davidson, he allowed no quarterback pressures in 2021 and one sack in 2,288 snaps at Boston College (according to ESPN’s advanced stats). The owner of two degrees (computer science and cybersecurity), he met with the Bucs in a formal interview during the combine. 2. Kenyon Green, Texas A&M Size: 6-4/323 Measurable of note: Ran 40-yard dash in 5.24 seconds at NFL scouting combine (35th among 50 offensive linemen) The most versatile guy on this list, Green started at four positions on the offensive line last season, playing left tackle in the Aggies’ 41-38 upset of Alabama. An AP first-team All-American and Lombardi Award finalist, he’s hailed as a dominant run blocker, which could make him appealing to a Bucs unit bent on running more effectively. 3. Cole Strange, Chattanooga Size: 6-5/307 Measurable of note: Did 31 bench-press reps of 225 (one fewer than Johnson) at NFL scouting combine Licht’s history of unearthing offensive-line gems from small schools (see Marpet, Cappa) could extend with this five-year starter. A 4.0 student who graduated with a psychology degree, Strange won the Southern Conference’s Jacobs Blocking Award last fall, then had an impressive Senior Bowl week and shined at the combine. 4. Dylan Parham, Memphis Size: 6-3/311 Measurable of note: 40-yard dash time at NFL scouting combine (4.93 seconds) was third-best among centers and guards One of the draft’s most seasoned players, Parham logged 50 college starts, including 39 at right or left guard. As a redshirt senior in 2021, he allowed only two quarterback hits and didn’t surrender a sack in 545 pass-protection snaps. He formally met with the Bucs — who love versatility in their linemen — at the combine. 5. Sean Rhyan, UCLA Size: 6-5/321 Measurable of note: Three-cone drill (7.55 seconds) was eighth-fastest among guards and centers at NFL scouting combine Rhyan started for three years at left tackle for the Bruins, who have averaged more than 200 rushing yards a contest each of the last two years. He projects as a guard in the NFL, however, and has been deemed one of the draft’s top five prospects at the position by both Mel Kiper and Todd McShay. If you’re seeking some type of cosmic connection to Tampa Bay, he wears the same jersey number (74) as Marpet. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.