A big, bold public investment Rebidding Annex is the move best for Tampa | Editorial, April 13 I appreciate the Tampa Bay Times acknowledging the growing community enthusiasm for the new City Center in east Tampa and community consensus that re-bidding the project would be counterproductive. This is a big, bold and historic public investment in east Tampa that will include unprecedented levels of participation by minority-owned businesses. We heard valid concerns from some African American community leaders about how the city can ensure that participation comes to fruition, and we worked with them to put safeguards in place. City Center will turn an abandoned eyesore into a community jewel, consolidate city departments now scattered across the city, create a lovely community gathering spot, and provide important workforce development. We followed the Consultant’s Competitive Negotiation ACT (CCNA) process with a 2015 contract that allowed exactly what is occurring — demolition, design, and construction. Starting all over again would sock taxpayers with much higher construction costs, thanks to supply chain and inflation challenges, not to mention interruptions to city services and the delay in completion. Yes, I can be impatient about the slow pace of government, especially when it comes to the neediest areas of Tampa. Rather than analysis paralysis, this administration and city council listened to the public, improved the process, and continued moving forward on behalf of Tampa residents. I could not be more excited to see City Center take shape. Jane Castor, Tampa The writer is mayor of Tampa. The power to punish DeSantis targets Disney’s self-rule | April 20 I had to think twice about signing my real name to this letter. That’s because Gov. Ron DeSantis weaponizes the power of the governor’s office to go after those who (like me) have the temerity to disagree with him. The latest case-in-point is Walt Disney World. Now our governor has decided that withholding political campaign contributions while publicly disagreeing with him is an offense worthy of using the power of his office to punish. Woe betide the nation should there ever be a President DeSantis. Johnny Wells, Tampa A mandate unmasked 5 things about Tampa judge behind travel mask ruling | April 20 It is great to see a federal judge in Florida follow the law and reject President Joe Biden’s transportation mask mandate. Both airline employees and passengers deserve to have this misery end. Paul Bacon, Hallandale Beach