CHICAGO — Rookie leftfielder Josh Lowe had a couple of challenges in making a spectacular home-run robbing catch to start the White Sox’s first inning after his Rays had taken a 4-0 lead. Lowe had to adjust for the ball hit by leadoff batter Tim Anderson carrying further than he expected, given the stiff breeze blowing in. He had to time his leap to get extended above the top of the 8-foot wall. And then he had to survive the massive celebratory hug from centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier. “It feels really good,’’ the 6-foot-4 Lowe said. “I was happy that I put myself in a position to go and help the team succeed, make a play on that ball.’’ Lowe, who shifted from third base to the outfield in 2017 at Class A, said he only robbed one homer previously, last season at Triple-A Durham. This one was better. “That was pretty cool today,’’ he said. Kiermaier couldn’t say enough good things about the play, noting Lowe’s “perfect” form and instincts to keep tracking it through the wind, and insisting it should be the top play on ESPN’s SportsCenter. “I’ve been excited in years past when my teammates make great plays, and that one has to be up there,’’ Kiermaier said. “Just triumphant. … I didn’t think there was a chance, but I saw him keep going back and I saw him jump up, and I saw it go in his glove, and I screamed. “That’s a play that he’ll never forget — his first robbed homer in the big leagues. He’s going to be doing that for years to come. He’s a great player all around, he works hard and he’s just a great athlete. So for him to make that play, I was just living vicariously. That was awesome. Reminds me of a young Kevin Kiermaier.’’ Tommy Romero sent down Tommy Romero’s second major-league outing went better than his Tuesday debut, as he worked the final two innings, allowing just a solo homer. But he was optioned back to Triple A after the game, as the Rays opted to keep reliever Phoenix Sanders in clearing a space for Javy Guerra, the right-handed reliever acquired Saturday from San Diego. Manager Kevin Cash said they are still learning about how best to use Guerra, who was converted from shortstop to reliever in 2019: “He’s a high electric-stuff guy that we’ve got to find a way to get it the zone consistently.’’ ... Reliever Dusten Knight, designated for assignment after pitching Wednesday, cleared waivers and accepted an outright assignment to Durham. Rotation set, Ryan Yarbrough delayed The Rays opted to keep their rotation in order and push back plans to give their starters extra rest, with Shane McClanahan set to work Monday’s series opener against the Cubs, Josh Fleming (either starting or behind an opener) on Tuesday and Drew Rasmussen on Wednesday. The starters will get extra rest before their next turn as the team has Thursday and April 25 off. The Rays initially hoped Ryan Yarbrough, sidelined at the start of the season with left groin tightness, could face the Cubs. But, though Cash said Yarbrough was “doing good” and hadn’t had a setback, the lefty has yet to even throw off a mound. Cash said they hope Yarbrough does so by Tuesday, and it was “possible’' he could start during the nine-game homestand that begins Friday. Miscellany Reliever J.P. Feyereisen made his first start since 2014 in college, working as the opener Sunday. But rather than wait in the dugout for the bottom of the first inning, he stayed in the bullpen and ran in from there to the mound. “I’m not big on sitting down after getting loose,’’ he said. ... For 14 of the current Rays, the series against the Cubs that starts Monday will be their first games playing at historic Wrigley Field. … Cash said catcher Mike Zunino’s previously sore shoulder has improved to the point where he can start playing back-to-back games, potentially this week, though maybe one game as a DH. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.