Wasting gas for free gas Rapper’s giveaway fuels long line at the pumps | April 10 On Saturday, traffic came to a stand still on 34th Street S at 54th Avenue, the I-275 ramps and the Pinellas Bayway, all in the name of giving away $25,000 in gasoline by a local who had become famous. How much gasoline was wasted by all the cars stuck in traffic? Who thought this was a good idea? Debi Ford, St Petersburg Sorry I didn’t see you A driver’s apology Saturday, while attending an event at Armature Works, an area I am completely unfamiliar with, I went to turn into a parking garage near the corner of N Tampa Avenue and East Oak Avenue. I apparently cut off a vehicle. I’d like to apologize to that person; hopefully they are a reader. I honestly didn’t see you. I realize now I was crossing in front of you and would like to thank you for avoiding a collision. Daniel J. McKee, Dunnellon More than money Americans have lost the willingness and the ability to share a common national identity | Column, April 11 Leonard Pitts says we’re missing a common sense of national identity. Maybe that’s because dollar signs have replaced it. We measure everything with money. I recently watched Ken Burns’ PBS film about Benjamin Franklin, who rightly asserted that democracy should be focused on the people, not money. Today, we have summarily thrown aside that tiresome yoke of minding each other. If we do not understand that people have more value than their pocketbooks, we will be hard pressed to find an identity on any scale, let alone national. Betsy Clement, Dunedin The debt comes due Student loan forbearance — forever | Another voice, April 11 Student loan dollars came from someplace with the expectation that they would be recovered (with interest). We need to help our college students understand that legal contracts have consequences, which cannot just be tossed aside. They are adults and responsible for their actions. E. Seward, Odessa Not so ‘radical’ Defund teachers unions, not charter schools | Column, April 9 It seems that Sen. Marco Rubio is insinuating that the government gives funds to “radical teacher unions.” These are professional associations that the teachers pay dues to join. The federal government does not monetarily support them. The unions lobby Congress and do give donations to candidates. Interesting that in his bid for re-election, that the American Federation of Teachers gave support to his opponent, Patrick Murphy, but not to Rubio. I guess that is why the unions are “radical.” Steve Farst, Tampa