CHICAGO — The first time Wander Franco batted Tuesday, he grounded out to first base, and his manager and coaches yelled at him from the dugout to not run so hard. The Rays star shortstop had missed Monday’s game due to tightness in his right quad and though he insisted he felt fine, the proviso to return to the lineup was to not push himself too hard. When Franco came up again in the third inning, he found a good compromise, hitting a two-run home run — his first of the season — then jogged around the bases. Franco’s blast was the biggest of numerous key contributions in a much welcomed 6-5 win over the Cubs, as the Rays got back to .500 at 6-6 after dropping five of their previous six. “Honestly,” said infielder Taylor Walls, “we’re just tired of losing.” Franco, who wasn’t cleared to play until about 2 ½ hours before first pitch, returned with his usual passion and top-shelf performance, logging his fourth three-hit game — tied for most in the majors — and American League-leading seventh multi-hit game. “He’s a really good player that’s playing really, really well right now for us,” manager Kevin Cash said. “I thought it was smart giving him the day (off), and we’ll just keep plugging him in there.” Franco said he knew the quad tightness was minor and that he would show he was able to get back on the field. “Of course,” he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I was ready to play since (Monday), but it is what it is.” Franco said he was “very, very happy, obviously” about the homer, which went 417 feet and came after the Rays successfully challenged an out call on Randy Arozarena at first on the back end of a double play. As for getting to take a slow trot around the bases? “I like to run,” Franco said. “But obviously that’s what happened and I’m okay with it.” The Rays had a 4-0 lead in the fourth and Josh Fleming, who replaced solid opener Matt Wisler, on the mound. But the Cubs got to Fleming, closing the gap to 4-3, and the game stayed close. The Rays added two in the seventh when Walls tripled, Arozarena laced a double down the rightfield line and Harold Ramirez singled. But the Cubs rallied, as Brooks Raley hit a batter and allowed a triple for one, then Ryan Thompson came on with two outs and in between two walks he threw a wild pitch that scored another. But Walls, shifted to short rightfield, made a key play to get them out of the inning. “Wallsy’s probably one of the best gloves in the game, so we kind of expect that out of him,” reliever Andrew Kittredge said. “But that doesn’t take anything away from how difficult that play is. That’s a big play in a big situation.” The win was truly a team effort, as six pitchers were used and seven Rays hitters either drove in or scored a run. “Certainly it’s tough to hit in cold weather,” Cash said. “We’ve acknowledged that. We’ve kind of proven that here over the last couple days. But it was good to get the bats going. Wander comes up big for us. He’s been  just playing really, really well all season long, both sides of the ball. Nice to have him back in the lineup. And the rest of the guys kind of followed suit.” So there was no surprise that Franco stepped up. “I felt that way last year with the way he performed,” Cash said. “So kind of come to expect that he’s up for those moments, and he does find a way.” Franco said he knew the coaches wanted him to throttle back his running, especially playing in the cold weather, with a first-pitch temperature of 42, but he was going all out as usual when he doubled in the fifth. “It’s just the way I play,” he said. “I’m going to play that way until the end.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.