AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods on Sunday committed to playing in the British Open at St. Andrews in July after finishing a week at the Masters that didn’t seem possible less than 14 months ago. Playing in his first official tournament since he was seriously injured in a car wreck outside Los Angeles on Feb. 23, 2021, Woods said he’ll look back on the week and be thankful though he didn’t get the result he wanted. “I keep saying it, but I am (thankful),” Woods said. “I really am. I truly am. Just to get to this point.” Woods closed with back-to-back 78s that were the worst scores of his Masters career. He finished 13-over 301. He even had to take a left-handed swing at the 13th on Sunday after knocking his ball onto the pine straw behind the green, right up next to an azalea. His battered body simply ran out of steam after an electrifying 71 on Thursday. He grinded out a 74 on Friday, ensuring he would make the Masters cut for the 22nd time in a row. There was nothing left in the tank for the weekend. Still, it was a gratifying experience, one Woods clearly didn’t regret putting himself through though he didn’t come close to winning a record-tying sixth green jacket. “This tournament has meant so much to me and my family,” Woods said. “This is where all the great champions have ever played. They have walked these grounds.” Woods told Britain’s Sky Sports that he planned to play the British Open but said he wasn’t sure about playing in the next two majors: the PGA Championship on May 19-22 at Southern Hills in Tulsa, Okla., and the U.S. Open in June at Brookline in Massaschusetts in June. “It’ll be just the big events,” Woods told Sky Sports. “But I am looking forward to St. Andrews. That is something that is near and dear to my heart. I’ve won two Opens there; it’s the home of golf. It’s my favorite golf course in the world, so I will be there for that one.” Woods plans to step up his rehabilitation so his body has a better chance of holding up over four grueling days. “We’re excited about the prospects of the future, about training, about getting into that gym and doing some other stuff to get my (right) leg stronger, which we haven’t been able to do because it needed more time to heal,” he said. “I think it needs a couple more days to heal after this, but we’ll get back after it.”