TAMPA — Mayor Jane Castor said Wednesday she doesn’t see the need for a reset with the City Council following a tumultuous week in which she announced accountability and transparency measures aimed at council members and was blasted by one of them in return. “We don’t have any issues. We’ve worked well together and I have worked closely with every member of City Council,” Castor said, adding that she and council members have accomplished a lot in her first three years in office. Council member Bill Carlson last week said Castor’s administration was targeting council members who opposed her. Council member John Dingfelder resigned in March as part of a legal settlement involving his mishandling of public records. And council member Orlando Gudes resigned his chairpersonship, but refused to resign his seat, after the city found he had created a hostile work environment for a former aide. Gudes, a retired Tampa police officer, has also said he believes the Castor administration has targeted him. “I’ve never had any issues with Orlando Gudes, I think,” Castor said in an interview Wednesday. “We worked together at the police department. We worked together on council. I haven’t had any issues with him.” Castor said she was obligated to investigate the aide’s complaints. “I think there needs to be a separation between your working relationship with someone and then the need to take action when you’re presented with a complaint and an investigation and a set of facts,” she said. Castor has said she would have removed Gudes from office if she could. She said Wednesday that she has no plans to ask Gov. Ron DeSantis to remove Gudes from office. She said she has read from news media reports that DeSantis is aware of the situation and doesn’t think she needs to do anything else. Another point of friction with some council members has been the controversial City Center project on E Hanna Avenue in East Tampa. Last month at a council meeting, Castor officials didn’t name who authorized the project to proceed after it grew in scope and costs increased from $10 million to $108 million, instead referring to it as a collective decision by her staff. On Wednesday, she took responsibility. “I did make that decision. I was presented with all the facts, all of the information, and I made the decision that was in the best interest of our community,” Castor said. The mayor said expiring leases in buildings that housed city workers led to “an urgent” situation that will also benefit the city and city workers. A delay for rebidding would have increased costs, especially in light of recent inflation, she said. Castor met with the council’s newest member, Lynn Hurtak, in her office on Wednesday. Castor said, contrary to some news media reports, that she hadn’t supported Meredith A. Freeman, an attorney who also applied to replace Dingfelder. Freeman lost her bid when council members selected Hurtak to fill out the last year of Dingfelder’s term. “I never backed anyone. I’ve said all along it was council’s decision,” Castor said.