We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “Let’s Start Charging Men to Have Babies,” by Alexis Grenell in The Nation. The context, from the author: Mothers are pushed out of the workforce. Maybe it’s time for a market solution. The excerpt: Withholding social infrastructure to push women out of the workforce while making them privately finance raising their children is peak capitalism and pure evil. The only solution is to lean into our exponentially consumer-driven society and deploy a market strategy: Women need to start charging men to have babies. It’s really very easy. As long as we still have access to hormonal birth control, women can control the means of production as a bargaining position. I know, it’s not as good as having actual rights, but if conservatives are going to complain about falling birth rates, we may as well leverage the demand. From “The End Of Mom Guilt,” by Lara Bazelon in The Atlantic. The context, from the author: Why a mother’s ambition is good for her family. The excerpt: None of my children’s friends mistook me for a happy homemaker. For a time, this was a source of guilt. Gradually, though, I came to a different view. For all of my failures at home ec, I knew my son and daughter felt loved, just as I had felt loved by my own ambitious mother. That recognition led me, in turn, to wonder why for so long I’d thought of ambition as antithetical to good mothering. Prioritizing your career — not all the time, but some of the time — models valuable lessons for children, including independence and resilience. Research shows that the children of full-time working mothers fare no worse than the children of stay-at-home mothers. From “Putin’s War Gives America a Chance to Get Serious About Refugees,” by Bill McKibben in The New Yorker. The context, from the author: The climate crisis will produce a huge wave of migrants, and we’re not ready. The excerpt: Every tenth-of-a-degree rise in temperature shrinks the habitable world by some fraction, forcing more people from their homes. Just as (Vladimir) Putin’s war gives Biden a new opportunity to make the case for renewable energy, so it gives him an opening to address this intractable problem (of immigration). In both cases, it may be a last chance before climate change overtakes us. FROM THE RIGHT https://www.nationalreview.com/2022/04/what-did-joe-biden-know-and-when-did-he-know-it/ From “What Did Joe Biden Know and When Did He Know It?” by Rich Lowry in The National Review. The context, from the author: The walls evidently aren’t closing in on President Joe Biden. Despite the mainstream press finally taking up the sleazy business dealings discussed in emails found on Hunter Biden’s laptop, the media’s lack of interest in the president’s knowledge or involvement in this lucrative part of the family business is palpable. The excerpt: The president’s son, Hunter, and the president’s brother Jim have made a living from trafficking on their family name and political connections. The laptop is a guide to a particularly ripe example, a deal with CEFC China Energy, a cat’s-paw of the Communist Party of China, that funneled nearly $5 million to Hunter and his uncle. The president has said that he’s “never spoken” to Hunter about “his overseas business dealings.” Let’s stipulate that’s true. It still wouldn’t have taken much conversation for the then-vice president to understand why his son was hitching a ride on Air Force Two with him on a trip to China in 2013. It wasn’t for sightseeing. From “Biden’s Folly In Ukraine,” by Douglas Macgregor in The American Conservative. The context, from the author: President Biden and the foreign policy uniparty are restoring the strategic condition Washington feared in 1940. The excerpt: American voters instinctively grasp the truth that Americans have nothing to gain from a war with Russia, declared or undeclared. A short trip to almost any supermarket or gas station in America explains why. Last week, inflation hit its highest point in nearly 40 years and gas prices have skyrocketed since the conflict in Ukraine began. Thanks to the Western media’s non-stop dissemination of unfavorable images of Russia’s leaders and its military, it would appear that President Biden is able to espouse any narrative that suits his purpose. Obscuring the true origins of this tragic conflict, however — NATO’s eastward expansion to include Ukraine — cannot alter strategic reality. Moscow can no more lose the war with Ukraine than Washington could lose a war with Mexico. From “Democrats Hit the Gas as They Approach the Mid-Term Cliff,” by Bonchie in RedState. The context, from the author: A mid-term cliff is approaching, and Democrats are content to hit the gas. As a Republican, I’m certainly supportive of that, but as a political onlooker, I can’t help but notice how insane that strategy is. I can only chalk it up to hubris, and we all know what comes after pride. The excerpt: In an article I penned on Tuesday morning, I shared the recent results of two focus groups, both of which were made up of not just Biden voters, but Biden’s base voters. What was found was widespread discontent with the Democrat Party with an emphasis on the issues most Americans are worried about, i.e. inflation, COVID-19 restrictions and crime. In other words, they weren’t losing sleep over Jan. 6 or Donald Trump having political rallies where people believe the 2020 election was stolen. Yet, Democrats have made the asinine decision to continue to lean into issues that people do not care about.