If you are a parent, then you know that children are naturally inquisitive about everything they encounter. Their curiosity allows them to grow and learn. The youngest of my three children is in second grade. He shares with his friends and teachers what we do as a family often They share their experiences with him as well — what they did over the holidays, where they went and with whom they spent time. These very common exchanges between kids and their classmates and teachers strengthen their development and social skills. The “don’t say gay or trans” law means teachers can no longer discuss sexual orientation or gender identity with children in grades kindergarten through third grade. So if a kindergartner asks their teacher why another student has two mommies, this law could prohibit that teacher from giving a simple and direct answer to a basic question. This would mean that my second-grader could also come home from school asking my husband and me why he can’t discuss certain members of our family while presenting a family tree project. Cory Bernaert, a kindergarten teacher here in Florida, explained that when a student asks him what he did over the weekend, he’ll no longer be able to say he went paddle-boarding with his partner — because he’d have to explain what “partner” means. It broke my heart when Mr. Bernaert said, “It truly makes me feel like I am not trusted as a professional.” Nobody should feel that way, particularly the hardworking teachers we rely on so much. In signing this bill, Gov. Ron DeSantis and our state Legislature are showing kids everywhere that being a member of the LGBTQ+ community — or having LGBTQ+ family members — is somehow shameful, or worse, something to be outright lied about. To make matters worse: We are already seeing a record number of teachers leaving the profession because of burnout. We can’t afford to lose good, caring, committed teachers like Mr. Bernaert when our schools are already dealing with teachers running for the exits due to a lack of appreciation for the profession. Far-right state legislators say this was not designed to ban harmless conversations, but rather, to prevent districts from including sexual orientation or gender identity in lesson plans for kindergarten to third graders. But that answer doesn’t hold up against the facts: First, the bill is vague enough that it could easily be misinterpreted to include conversations about how someone spent a nice weekend. The Florida Legislature had several opportunities to amend this to be more precise and refused to do so. Teachers could be unfairly punished or even sued. Because teachers will fear drastic and harsh repercussions, this will have a chilling effect across Florida classrooms. Second, Florida’s educators were not trying to make sexual orientation or gender identity part of an early elementary curriculum. In fact, the state sets the curriculum and it already excludes sexual education at those grade levels. It seems to me, as a parent, that our politicians would rather police language and raid library shelves than invest in our public schools and education system. This is particularly troubling after the challenging two years we’ve faced due to the pandemic. What are our elected officials doing about the 40 percent of third-graders in Florida not reading at grade level? Banning books. And how is the state dealing with the over 40 percent of new teachers who leave the profession within their first five years? Passing laws like “don’t say gay or trans.” As a parent, I am outraged. Instead of attacking teachers, our politicians should be focused on what really matters: our kids’ education. Nicole White is a mother of three in Jacksonville and serves on the board of PFLAG Jacksonville as the director of donor services. PFLAG is the United States’ first and largest organization uniting parents, families and allies with people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer.