PORT CHARLOTTE — Shane McClanahan wasn’t sure what Rays manager Kevin Cash meant when he came to take him out of Saturday’s exhibition with two outs in the fourth. “I gave the ball to Cash and he’s like, ‘You’re going back out.’ I go, ‘Okay.’ And I was like, ‘Wait, what?’” McClanahan relayed. “I get back in the dugout, and they go, ‘Hey, you’re going out for one more hitter.’ I said, ‘Okay, I got it now.’” The idea was to let McClanahan get a fifth “up” by starting another inning, all part of the plan to have him built up as much as possible for his opening day start Friday, and taking advantage of the spring training re-entry rule for pitchers. He threw 58 pitches in his first stint and five in his second, and felt good about opening the season. “I think I’m in a good spot,” he said. “I put the work in this camp and in the offseason, and we’re going to go into Friday in a good position.” McClanahan had an interesting outing overall, allowing singles to the first three Twins, then, as Cash said, “dialed it up,” increasing his fastball velocity a few miles an hour to 98-99, striking out sluggers Miguel Sano and Gary Sanchez, and getting Alex Kirilloff out on a soft liner. “I feel like I have the same gear every time I take the mound, but I just started executing pitches,” McClanahan said. “I think that’s what it was; I started throwing strike one and making quality pitches and not leaving it over the center of the plate.” Overall, McClanahan allowed six hits and struck out six. He left the first time without a run scoring, though two runners who singled off him scored when minor-leaguer Trevor Brigden allowed a three-run homer. One notable change has been the improvement in his curveball. “(Pitching coach) Kyle Snyder has helped me a lot with that pitch, has given me a lot of cues while I’m throwing it and everything like that,” McClanahan said. “So I’m getting more comfortable with it. And I owe a lot of success to him.” Game recap: Twins 8, Rays 2 Two of the five relievers competing for the final three bullpen spots worked. Chris Mazza allowed two hits and four runs due to an error over 1 2/3 innings, Colin Poche walked one and got two outs. ... The Rays fell to 5-8-2 with four spring games left. ... Third baseman Yandy Diaz continued his strong defensive spring with a nice play from near the shortstop spot in a shift. “Yandy’s made some really good plays,” Cash said. “Just showing a lot of athleticism.” Miscellany Right-hander Luke Bard, who has looked sharp in his return from hip surgery, was reassigned to minor-league camp. That reduces the active roster to 31, with two pitchers, Shane Baz and Pete Fairbanks, headed to the injured list, and three more cuts to get to the 28-man opening day limit. ... Having impressed in a couple of workout sessions, recently acquired outfield/DH Harold Ramirez will get a start at first base Sunday. He could provide the Rays another lineup option vs. lefty pitchers. … Catcher Mike Zunino was the DH for a second straight game after being shut down for a few days due to shoulder inflammation, homering in the sixth. Throwing is the bigger issue, so Zunino is slated to DH again Sunday and possibly get back behind the plate Monday. ... Triple-A Durham broke camp Saturday, with a season opener Tuesday at Nashville. • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.