ST. PETERSBURG — There are no absolutes. Not even on opening day. I cannot guarantee that Wander Franco will get three hits every game. I cannot guarantee an eighth-inning rally in front of a sellout crowd. I cannot guarantee Shane McClanahan will throw a 100-mph pitch in every start, or that Kevin Kiermaier will leap the dugout railing to celebrate a teammate’s sacrifice fly. But one game into the 2022 season, I can strongly suggest this: You’re going to love these Rays. This is not just a good team, or a young team, or an exciting team, it is a good, young, exciting team that is easy to cheer for, just as the announced crowd of 25,025 discovered after a 2-1 win against the Orioles at Tropicana Field on Friday. “I love it, I absolutely love it,” Kiermaier said. “I love this team, I love winning, I love being around these players who come to the park with high energy.” This isn’t exactly new. The Rays have been winning for quite a few years now, and they’ve cycled through some pretty impressive young stars in the past. The difference with these particular guys is that they are simultaneously fresh and familiar. For everyone who complains about the way the Rays churn the roster every winter in order to keep the payroll manageable, this offseason was mostly silent and this group returned virtually intact. Of the 19 players to appear in Friday’s game, 17 were in the organization last season. And, for a change, there’s a chance it could stay this way for the foreseeable future. When asked before the game what excited him most about this group of players, principal owner Stuart Sternberg said it was the idea that their best days were still ahead, before making a joke at his own expense. “The confidence to know it’s unlikely the owner — unlikely — the owner and front office will screw things up,” Sternberg said. “You can root for this team and know that … even if things don’t work out ideally this year, we’ve got a pretty good runway ahead of us.” The Rays did not have a single extra-base hit Friday, and still made you feel as if any time or money invested in this game was well worth the cost. And it’s because of the way this group plays. There’s a boyish joy mixed with an old-school respect for those little moments that often go unnoticed on the ESPN highlights. It’s Josh Lowe, in the first opening day of his Major League career, fouling off fastball, fastball, curve, changeup, slider in succession during a 10-pitch walk that extended an inning and helped get Baltimore ace John Means off the mound prematurely. It’s Franco and Randy Arozarena racing down the first-base line to beat out infield hits on soft ground balls to third base. It’s Ji-Man Choi and Francisco Mejia coming off the bench to deliver a key walk and a sacrifice fly for the winning run, and six relievers throwing 4.2 innings of one-run ball. It’s tight defense, aggressive baserunning and J.P. Feyereisen’s porn-tastic mustache. “I think the culture is built that way,” catcher Mike Zunino said. “There are guys here who are going to become superstars in this game but we know, with how we’re built, that we need to do the small things right, and that’s ultimately what wins ballgames. “There’s a selflessness here. Guys having good at-bats and being willing to take the walk, tagging up in situations, going from first to third. You look at Randy and KK going hard (to first) on balls that should be guaranteed outs. All those little things add up and give us an edge in these close games.” And when it’s over, there’s the secretive disco ball celebration in the clubhouse that was started a half-dozen years ago by Kiermaier and is still going strong after victories today. “Pretty exciting,” manager Kevin Cash said. “I mean, there’s a lot of different characters and they can all get there differently, but there is a lot of athleticism out there. Whether it’s throwing across the infield, running down the line or hitting the ball 450 feet, it’s fun to watch them.” It won’t be this way every game. Pitchers will get hurt, slumps will intrude and the reality of the payroll’s limits will set in when the Yankees, Red Sox and Blue Jays come to town. It’s possible, in the haughty American League East, that the Rays will win 90 or more games and still not make the playoffs this season. So, no, there is no guarantee of October baseball even for a team coming off a 100-win season. But thrills? Laughter? Memories? Yeah, that seems like a pretty good bet for this crew. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.