A matter for mom and dad The ‘don’t say gay’ bill DeSantis just signed, explained | March 31 Well, the Democrats finally got it right when it comes to the bill they have dubbed it the “don’t say gay” bill. The reason is that nowhere in the bill is the word “gay” or a ban on saying it in a classroom. Won’t they can’t comprehend is that it’s designed for grades K-3. That is, 5- to 8-year-olds. I’m sorry but, at that age children should be learning to read and write and not why people are LGBTQ. If the teacher is asked those questions, the teacher should tell the child that it’s a subject to ask mommy or daddy about. Scott Shimer, Land O’ Lakes Problem doesn’t exist The ‘don’t say gay’ bill DeSantis just signed, explained | March 31 The “don’t say gay” bill denormalizes the LGBTQ+ community as it deems discussions surrounding it as “too inappropriate” for young students. Simply allowing children to know about LGBTQ+ people is not going to harm or impact them in any way. This bill is solving a problem that doesn’t even exist. D. Gentile, Largo Outside the lines Pickle ball in our court Pickle ball is the fastest growing sport in the nation. Hundreds of avid fans play each week at the pickle ball courts at Walter Fuller Park in St. Petersburg. There are also two tennis courts next to the pickle ball courts. In my years of thrice weekly play, I have seen tennis players only twice. The city has a plan to convert the tennis courts to pickle ball courts. Meanwhile, someone carefully painted pickle ball lines on the tennis courts, not touching any tennis lines. The city has now opened an investigation into who painted these lines. Really? If a mistake, this was an innocent one. Let’s be kind to each other and have a sense of proportion. Linn Sennott, St Petersburg A city at work St. Petersburg is transforming vacant lots into affordable housing | April 8 Kudos to James Corbett, St. Petersburg’s code enforcement director! We need more people like him in our city government. Lorraine Smith, St. Petersburg A good course Florida high schoolers will have to pass personal finance to graduate | March 28 It’s good a finance class has finally become mandatory. Many students come out of high school having no idea how taxes work, how credit works, or basic budgeting. The earlier students learn about these principles, the more prepared they will be for the real world. They will have a basic understand of how economics work and be more informed about finances, which will help them make important financial decisions in the future. K. Jones, Seminole