TAMPA — On Tuesday, just after Tampa City Council members selected her to replace John Dingfelder, Lynn Hurtak drove to North Tampa to met the city’s Police Benevolent Association union leaders. She’d heard that they had opposed her selection, she said, and wanted to address the matter head on. President Darla Portman wasn’t available, but Wednesday they met to hash things out, Hurtak said. Chief among the union’s concerns were social media postings from recent years in which Hurtak indicated support for defunding police in the wake of George Floyd’s murder by a Minneapolis police officer. Union officials were also concerned about Hurtak’s apparent online support for an overhaul of the city’s Citizen Review Board, which advocates have wanted to make more independent of the police department and Mayor Jane Castor, the city’s former police chief. “2020 and 2021 were really tricky. I think we were all angry, just not really sure what to do about it. I’ve read about it. I thought a lot about it. In any utopian society that might be possible, but there’s just no way to defund police because there’s always going to be people that need to be policed. That’s the unfortunate reality,” Hurtak said, explaining why she no longer supports the defunding movement. Hurtak said she searched her social media accounts but couldn’t find the postings that might have offended the union. Police union general counsel Danny Alvarez didn’t respond Thursday to a request for more information on what postings concerned the union. Hurtak also said she will do further research on the Citizen Review Board after union leaders explained their opposition to some of the proposed reforms. “I‘ll be honest, from my, from this seat and perspective, I don’t know enough about it,” said Hurtak after the morning session of her first City Council meeting, where she was sworn in. “I’m willing to learn more about it. But, at the time, from a citizens perspective, it didn’t seem fair. So I’m going to have to research and learn.” Hurtak said she’s a strong supporter of unions and has also met with the city’s firefighters union president and plans to do the same with the city employees union leadership. Alvarez texted late Wednesday to confirm the meeting took place. “We opposed her consideration due to her anti-police stance on social media and the fact that we had never met or seen her in the community,” wrote Alvarez. “The silver lining in this selection is that she had the courage to come visit us (Wednesday) with her point of view and was open to having her mind changed with time and exposure to the men and women of the Tampa Police Department.” Dingfelder was forced to resign his seat in March as part of a legal settlement of a lawsuit claiming public records violations. Hurtak’s term will end in 2023. The Old Seminole Heights resident said she will run for reelection to the citywide seat.