TAMPA — Conventional wisdom suggests that before unretiring, Bucs quarterback Tom Brady got some type of assurance the “Tommy and Gronky” show would be renewed for 2022. But with each day that free-spirited tight end Rob Gronkowski remains vague about his future, the tease nudges closer to torment for Bucs fans. As it stands, veteran Cameron Brate and 29-year-old Codey McElroy (one NFL catch) are the only Bucs tight ends on the current active roster. With former first-round draftee O.J. Howard now in Buffalo, securing Gronk for one more season seems a necessity. But even if that transpires, landing a tight end for the future early in the draft seems equally necessary, if not imperative. As this position goes, Tampa Bay’s board should be intact when the team picks at No. 27. While no apparent generational talent (i.e. Kyle Pitts) exists in this draft, the class contains several solid prospects, and all still should be available late in the first round. “I’d say (the tight end class) is pretty solid,” Bucs general manager Jason Licht said Tuesday. “There’s some good players. There’s never as many tight ends as there are receivers or running backs or offensive linemen, but I would say it’s pretty solid.” Here are our top five prospects, or at least the ones we feel make the most sense for Tampa Bay: 1. Trey McBride, Colorado State Size: 6 feet 4/246 pounds Measurable of note: Ran 40-yard dash in 4.56 seconds at his pro day, which would have been second-fastest time among tight ends at NFL scouting combine ESPN’s Mel Kiper and Todd McShay — not to mention many other draftniks — consider McBride the draft’s top prospect at his position. The 2021 Mackey Award winner represents the complete package in terms of blocking and ball skills. A three-sport high school star, McBride set school records last season in receptions (90) and yards (1,121). 2. Cade Otton, Washington Size: 6-5/247 Measurable of note: Ankle surgery sidelined Otton for nearly all NFL combine and UW pro day drills A college teammate of Joe Tryon-Shoyinka, Otton started four years for the Huskies, totaling 91 catches and nine touchdowns. More importantly, he excelled as a run blocker and seems an ideal fit for the Bucs’ two-tight end sets. The son and grandson of revered Washington prep coaches, Otton had ankle surgery in November but insists he’ll be ready for training camp. “I’m running pretty well on the field, starting to get into some cutting, and it’s coming along,” he told NFL Network on Tuesday. 3. Jeremy Ruckert, Ohio State Size: 6-5/250 Measurable of note: 22 reps of 225 pounds on bench press at Ohio State’s pro day Ruckert shares at least two commonalities with Gronk: Both are New York natives who relish in-line blocking. Overshadowed by the Buckeyes’ plethora of pass-catchers, Ruckert nonetheless had 26 catches for 309 yards and three touchdowns last season and finished with 12 TD catches in four years. He went viral in 2019, with a one-handed, 16-yard TD catch from Justin Fields in the 2019 Big Ten title game. 4. Greg Dulcich, UCLA Size: 6-4/243 Measurable of note: 40-yard dash (4.69 seconds) was fifth-fastest among tight ends at NFL combine Dulcich appears higher on other tight-end boards because of his speed, ball skills and production (42 catches, 725 yards, five touchdowns in 2021). His in-line blocking leaves a bit to be desired, though, which might make the Bucs a bit more leery than other suitors. But as a converted receiver, this former walk-on can get vertical as well as any tight end in this draft. 5. Isaiah Likely, Coastal Carolina Size: 6-4½/245 Measurable of note: Best vertical jump (36 inches) at NFL scouting combine A major offensive contributor during Coastal Carolina’s national emergence, Likely finished his four-year college career with 133 catches for 2,050 yards and 27 touchdowns. Five of those TDs went for at least 50 yards. If he can hone his blocking skills to complement his athleticism, Likely could be a force in the league for the next decade. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.