CHICAGO — The Rays’ starting pitching plans for the next few days don’t just seem a bit muddled. They are. After Corey Kluber takes the mound in Saturday’s matinee, the Rays aren’t saying — and seemingly aren’t sure — what they will do Sunday against the White Sox and Monday versus the Cubs. Manager Kevin Cash said rookie Tommy Romero, who had a rough Tuesday debut, “is going to pitch” Sunday, but his role might be predicated by what relievers are available. “It’ll be kind of his day, but there could be an opener,’’ Cash said “Just see how it shakes out the next two days.’’ Monday is a bigger question. The Rays originally planned for Ryan Yarbrough to come off the injured list (groin tightness) when eligible for Monday’s series opener at Wrigley Field. He now won’t do that, but Cash said that there was no setback, only that they wanted to give Yarbrough — who didn’t accompany the team to Chicago — some extra time. He could still pitch Tuesday or Wednesday. So what will the Rays do Monday? That is the first day players optioned to the minors during the spring can be recalled, but the team’s only available options are short reliever Colin Poche or rookie Calvin Faucher, who could be a two-inning opener and potentially pitch in front of multi-inning relievers Jalen Beeks or Chris Mazza. Or they could scrap plans to give some of their starters an extra days’ rest and use Shane McClanahan on Monday on his usual fifth day, then consider Josh Fleming or Yarbrough on Tuesday. Or bring in a pitcher from another team. Jackie Robinson remembered The Rays joined the rest of the majors in commemorating the 75th anniversary of Jackie Robinson breaking baseball’s color barrier, with all players and coaches wearing Robinson’s No. 42 — in Dodger blue this year — plus socks with his image. “I think MLB gets a lot of these initiatives right,” Cash said. “Just the added element of putting (the No. 42) in Dodger blue — everybody that came in the clubhouse commented on it. I thought the socks were awesome. ... They’re very cool.’’ The Rays, who presently don’t have any Black players on their major-league roster or coaching staff, marked the occasion by awarding five $20,000 Racial Equity Grants to Tampa Bay area organizations committed to ending systematic racism. The organizations: Arts Conservatory for Teens, Brain Expansions Scholastic Training, Gulf Coast Jewish Family and Community Services, Pace Center for Girls Hillsborough County, and The Skills Center. Also, the Rays helped build a community garden in St. Petersburg on Friday and are hosting an event Saturday at Tampa’s historic Belmont Heights Little League. All fans will get a Robinson No. 42 hat at the Rays’ next home game on April 22. “It’s a special day for baseball, obviously,’’ said Kluber, a 12-year veteran. “His impact on not just baseball but I think our country itself was tremendous. I think it’s special every year when we get to wear the 42 jersey. Obviously nobody wears it anymore, except for on this day. I think it’s a great reminder just where this game’s come, where the country’s come, and I think everybody really enjoys the day.’’ Miscellany Catcher Francisco Mejia had a tough night Friday, striking out in all three at-bats and allowing two wild pitches, a passed ball and a stolen base. “A little bit, yeah,’' Cash said. “Both sides.’' ... Game-time temperature was 47 degrees, and the Rays’ batting practice was canceled due to afternoon rain. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.