Arians’ record. As you likely already know, Bucs head coach Bruce Arians handed in his headset this week and took a job in the team’s front office. How he came to the decision to retire from coaching is the stuff of much speculation. But as rumors swirl, here’s a hat tip to the Super Bowl-winning Arians for hiring, promoting and mentoring one of the most diverse coaching staffs in the National Football League, a staff that included three Black coordinators (one of whom is taking his place as Bucs head coach) and two women. The NFL has a troubled history of passing over qualified coaches of color. The competition among players for starting positions may be a meritocracy, but the history of selecting head coaches stinks of cronyism and prejudice. Nearly 70 percent of the players are Black, while the vast majority of head coaches are white. Whatever value you put on diversity, those numbers don’t add up. Arians, 69, ensured that more Black coaches got the valuable experience needed to vie for head coaching jobs. Arians will be remembered for his stellar winning record with the Bucs, and the Super Bowl victory in 2021, but his legacy includes doing his part to help the next generation of Black coaches. Well done, coach. A judge’s clarity. A federal judge in Tallahassee struck a blow for equality and truth this week. U.S. District Judge Mark Walker disallowed several provisions of a Florida law last year that imposed new voting restrictions. In a sweeping 288-page order, Walker declared that voting rights were “under siege,” and he forbade lawmakers from passing future laws involving drop boxes, third-party voter registrations or activities aimed at polling sites without the court’s approval. While Florida Republicans (predictably) scoffed at the judge’s ruling, and believe they will prevail on appeal, Walker was right to call out a string of attempts at disenfranchising Black voters. “Both the Governor’s Mansion and the Legislature are controlled by a party that, in the words of its own expert witness, stands to gain ‘if voting were to decrease among African Americans,’” Walker wrote in his order. And he defended his order reserving court approval for some election changes in Florida over the next 10 years, saying that without the court’s “preclearance” authority, the Legislature could continue passing unconstitutional restrictions almost unabated. “Such a scheme makes a mockery of the rule of law,” he wrote. This was a powerful message about both constitutional rights and the realities of the day. And Walker refused to be trapped in semantics; he agreed with the plaintiffs in the lawsuit that the Legislature passed the law with the intent to discriminate against Black voters. But Walker noted: “The question before this Court is not whether the Florida Legislature is racist. Nor is the question whether SB 90′s sponsors are racists. Rather, the question is whether race was a motivating factor in (the law’s) adoption.” With clear thinking and the use of plain English, Walker cut through the smoke. That’s part of the historical record no matter what happens on appeal. Smarter arrest policy. There are plenty of ways to get arrested, but committing a minor offense while being poor should not be among them. That’s why Hillsborough County leaders should be applauded for exploring alternatives to arrest for those accused of some common driving offenses, such as driving without a valid license or insurance. The details are still being worked out, but law enforcement leaders in Hillsborough are coalescing toward a solid proposal. Reducing the number of people arrested for minor driving offenses can ease the burden on the criminal justice system. As important, it can keep people from tumbling in a cycle of mounting fines and fees that many can’t afford, and which can entangle them even further in financial and legal problems. Hillsborough State Attorney Andrew Warren said the idea is to expand the county’s Adult Pre-Arrest Diversion Program to include some driving offenses. He is working with Public Defender Julianne Holt, Chief Judge Ronald Ficarrotta and the county sheriff and Tampa police chief. This is a commonsense proposal that makes the right distinction between minor and serious offenders. Closing Piney Point. Florida is a step closer to shutting down the environmental threat of the old fertilizer plant at Piney Point. Regulators announced this week they had approved a plan to close Piney Point, on the Hillsborough-Manatee county line, just a year after 215 million gallons of polluted wastewater dumped into Tampa Bay. The water is a mix of polluted byproducts from fertilizer manufacturing and additional water that became contaminated when it touched that waste. As conceived, workers will drain the enormous reservoirs at the site, treat the water, then pump it down a 3,300-foot well across the street on land owned by Manatee County. A monitoring well will keep tabs underground. The tainted reservoirs have troubled the region for decades, and officials see the injection plan as the most viable way to avoid another crisis. To that end, U.S. District Judge William Jung was helpful by posting an order Monday that puts a temporary hold on a lawsuit that environmental groups filed last year. Jung wrote that the state court system “already has a running start on the closure of Piney Point” and pointed to $100 million that the Legislature approved last year to help clean up the site. “So long as it appears the state actors continue to operate in good faith, this federal court is reluctant to interfere with these ongoing state endeavors,” Jung wrote. In other words, why gunk it up? This is a complex effort that will require careful, long-term monitoring. But at least the wheels are in motion. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.