A Republican’s outrage What unanimous moral outrage looks like in the Senate | Column, April 14 Critics blame the Tampa Bay Times for leaning left in its commentaries, but I find them to be balanced. Take the conservative Hugh Hewitt, for example, who praises Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, for being ahead of the pack in the passage of “lend-lease” legislation to give Ukraine the arms it needs. An example of great moral outrage. Back in early 2021, Cornyn called the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol “horrific and appalling,” and said, “Those who planned and participated in the violence that day should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” And although opposed to impeaching a president who has left office, he stated that doesn’t mean a president cannot be held accountable for his actions and admitted that “once he leaves office (he) could be charged with incitement to insurrection.” Now Liz Cheney, on the House Committee investigating the attack, has announced that there is more than enough evidence to support charges against former President Donald Trump, if the Department of Justice decides to proceed. If so, let’s see what tune John Cornyn whistles to demonstrate his moral outrage. David Lubin, Tampa Pedestrians don’t matter Pinellas most dangerous for walking, bicycling in 2021. Deaths nearly double | Jan. 17 In the last century, the U.S. has become one of the most car dependent countries in the world. But not everyone drives. People walk, ride bikes or take public transportation. To cross a road, the pedestrian is expected to use the crosswalk, of course, right in front of the vehicles that are expected to stop for a single, vulnerable body. That is, if there are any marked crosswalks at all. As long as you are not in a vehicle, you do not matter, and you are not protected by anything other than a written law and the expectation that everyone around you will obey the law. Charley Besaw, Seminole What’s fair about this? Tampa Bay districts get redder or bluer | April 15 So much for the Fair Districts constitutional amendment that Florida residents passed in 2010 prohibiting gerrymandering. I guess that amendment is just a suggestion if you’re the governor. It is shameful that our Legislature handed the task of drawing a “fair” congressional map to the very fox who is guarding the henhouse. Why do we bother electing representatives if we let them get away with this travesty? Betsy Clement, Dunedin