A technology partner to some of the world’s biggest companies, including Microsoft, is making big plans in Tampa. Avanade, which provides tech solutions and cloud services to a host of Fortune 500 companies, announced plans Thursday to build its first U.S. engineering hub in Tampa. The Seattle company said the enterprise will bring 500 new entry- and senior-level engineering, data and software development jobs to Tampa over the next three years. “Watching Tampa emerge as one of the nation’s hottest tech cities, we felt it made sense for us to plant our flag here and become an active part of this burgeoning community,” Shawn Simmons, Avanade’s executive vice president of North America engineering hubs, said in a statement. Founded in 2000 through a partnership with Microsoft and Accenture — now its primary corporate parent — Avanade has 56,000 employees in 26 countries, including at another engineering hub that opened last month in Toronto. While Microsoft is its highest-profile client, the company has also worked with major global brands like Pepsi, Mercedes-Benz and Siemens. Last year it reported revenues of $2 billion. In Tampa, Avanade will have a physical office, but will also embrace hybrid and remote work, according to the Tampa Bay Economic Development Council. The company also plans to partner with local colleges and other schools to offer career training; according to the council, it will hold a seat on the board at Tampa Bay Tech. “Tampa is one of the top markets in the country when it comes to tech talent growth, and major tech employers like Avanade are taking notice,” council chairperson James Nozar said in a statement. “The addition of Avanade to our community is a major win and further bolsters our reputation as a rapidly growing tech hub.” One Avanade job listing for Tampa said the hubs will be “strategically established offices in the heart of 4 downtown cities across the U.S. and Canada,” and also mentions Orlando as a possible work location. The council’s announcement said the company will recruit “from throughout the greater Tampa metro area and across Central Florida.” “Over the last several years, our city has been on a hot streak when it comes to attracting leading technology companies and the highly-skilled talent they need to be successful,” Mayor Jane Castor said in a statement. “We are thrilled Avanade has chosen our community for its latest expansion and we’re excited for the company’s future here.”