ST. PETERSBURG — Brett Phillips remained in the spotlight Wednesday between the stories, video clips and sound bites flying around the Internet, and the steady stream of messages on his phone stemming from his actions the night before. Phillips said he didn’t mind, since it drew attention to the real story, 8-year-old Chloe Grimes’ second battle with cancer. “It’s been really cool to see the outpouring of love and reach that it’s had,’’ Phillips said. “It’s not my story, right? I’m a part of Chloe’s story, and that’s what makes it so special, that we were able to make that happen. ... I’m just super blessed that I was a part of it.’' After five years cancer-free, Grimes was diagnosed on March 10 — her mother Jacquie’s 40th birthday — with papillary thyroid cancer. She is scheduled to have surgery May 3 to remove her thyroid. Chloe’s favorite Ray is Phillips, and as a guest of the team Tuesday, she got to throw the ceremonial first pitch to the outfielder and meet him afterward, presenting him with several items including a rubber bracelet that said, “Rally For Chloe Our Princess Warrior.” Phillips told Chloe that she gave him her power and he “would try to do something special for her.’’ In the third inning against the A’s, he did. As the Grimeses were being interviewed by Bally Sports Sun’s Tricia Whitaker, Phillips — wearing the bracelet — launched a massive home run, on the hardest hit ball of his career, creating a tear-inducing story that spanned the world. And one that will be ongoing. A GoFundMe account to help the Grimeses with expenses got a big boost from the attention, with donations increasing from $5,700 before the TV interview to nearly $19,500 after Wednesday’s game, with a goal of $25,000. Phillips, through his Baseball is Fun apparel business, contributed $1,000, and the Rays Baseball Foundation matched it. “It was a no-brainer,’’ Phillips said. “Hopefully we’ll hit that $25,000 mark for her — and more possibly. It would continue to help them with expenses and all that that’s to come.’’ Phillips said an assortment of merchandise is also headed to the Grimeses. Also, the ball, which was retrieved from the C-for-Chloe-ring catwalk where it landed, will be signed by Phillips. “Just what an amazing young lady who through adversity and just what she’s dealing with, to be able to spread joy and love — what a really cool perspective for not only myself but everyone,’’ Phillips said. “This is an 8-year-old girl who is battling cancer for a second time and chooses to smile and bring Brett Phillips gifts. Like, come on. Who am I every day not to put on the lens of love and joy because she does? Like, what is my excuse? So, really cool.’’ Dusten Knight flips script; Luis Patino return pushed to June Needing a fresh arm for their taxed bullpen, the team called up Dusten Knight, a 31-year-old right-hander known most for doing backflips on the field after getting saves in the minors. Knight, who debuted last season with the Orioles, worked 2⅓ much-welcomed innings Wednesday against the A’s, allowing one run. The Rays might need to bring in another fresh arm Thursday, but manager Kevin Cash said they were “so appreciative” of what Knight did. Ralph Garza Jr., who worked three innings Tuesday, was sent down. To create space for Knight on the 40-man roster, the team shifted starter Luis Patino from the 10-day injured list to the 60-day, pushing back his return from a left oblique strain to at least June 11. That will give him time to build back up to starter duties. Had the Rays not needed the roster spot, they might have been able to use him as a reliever in May as he logged game innings. Miscellany Lefty Josh Fleming will step into the rotation and start Thursday’s matinee homestand finale, providing an extra day’s rest for Drew Rasmussen and the other starters. … Tommy Romero acknowledged that nerves were among the issues in his rough debut Tuesday, throwing 59 pitches over 1⅔ innings and walking five. He said he expects to be better when he gets his next opportunity. … Phillips’ homer Tuesday was the eighth time in 25 seasons at the Trop that a fair ball went up and did not come down. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.