Just after the St. Petersburg Arts Alliance honored members of the arts community with the Muse Awards, the organization has created a new award for the Arts Advocate of the Year. The recipient is Melissa Seixas, Duke Energy Florida president. Seixas will accept the award at a garden party on April 24 at the Rutland-Farley Estate in St. Petersburg. Seixas was chosen as the first recipient of the award because it was her idea to create a Comprehensive Arts Strategy for St. Petersburg. The strategy is being implemented by the St. Petersburg Arts Alliance, the St. Petersburg Downtown Partnership and the City of St. Petersburg to grow the city’s arts sector and strengthen its economic impact. The plan is based on collaboration, communication, sustainable funding and benchmarks — rolled out in July with $100,000 of seed money raised from public and private sources. Seixas conceived the idea a few years ago while she was chairing the St. Petersburg Downtown Partnership. A board retreat led to a discussion about the economic drivers in the city and how the organization could help. Arts were on the top of that list because of how they attract people to the city, either as artists or art appreciators. “What I recommended was, let’s not look at this as individual tactical actions,” she said. “We need an overall strategy that’s going to withstand change in the community — change of leaders, business leaders, as people leave or new people come in — that we have a roadmap that will keep us focused on the comprehensive view of what the arts can do for St. Petersburg, and what St. Petersburg can do for the arts.” She took the idea to Jason Mathis, CEO of the St. Petersburg Downtown Partnership, who involved the St. Petersburg Arts Alliance. Meetings, surveys and discussions with thousands of art leaders, artists and art appreciators ensued. “We needed to hear from the community. We needed to hear from business leaders, we needed to hear from artists,” Seixas said. “We needed to hear from people that art wasn’t necessarily on their radar. We needed to benchmark against other cities.” When Terry Marks joined the arts alliance as chief executive officer in 2021, she was given the Comprehensive Arts Strategy and has been working to implement it. The Arts Advocate of the Year award was conceived as a way to bring the business community and arts community together, with the understanding that arts and culture contribute so much to the economy in St. Petersburg, Marks said. Because of Seixas’ vision, Marks said it was a no-brainer to choose her as the first recipient of the award. Seixas said she feels humble and appreciative. “This is an opportunity for me to thank and express appreciation to all of those who are living and breathing the arts every single day, much more than I am,” she said. She gave credit to peers, colleagues, mentors and others who have introduced her to the arts community. An event will accompany the award each year. This year, the theme is performing arts because of how tough the pandemic was for that industry, Marks said. The Hats Off to Performing Arts Garden Party will feature performances by Alex Harris & Arts Conservatory for Teens and music by Freefall Theatre’s music director Michael Raabe, accompanied by vocalist Ericka Womack and upright bassist Richard Jiminez. There will be aerialists, ballet dance and a special theater performance with local actors Alexa Perez and Matthew McGee. Guests are encouraged to wear hats that “speak to your own creative genius.” Prizes will be awarded for Most Beautiful, Most Creative and Most Humorous. If you go Hats Off to Performing Arts Garden Party. 11 a.m.-2 p.m. April 24. Individual tickets are $175. Rutland-Farley Estate, 5030 Sunrise Drive S, St. Petersburg. To get more information or to buy tickets, visit stpeteartsalliance.org/gardenparty.