CHICAGO — Getting to play on the field that older brother Dan takes care of as the Cubs’ head groundskeeper made the three-game series special for Rays centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier. Getting to exchange lineup cards at home plate with Dan before Wednesday’s finale — at the suggestion of Cubs manager David Ross — made it even more so. “That was cool,’’ Kevin Kiermaier said. “That was a very thoughtful idea. … A very nice move on his part. These are moments that no one can ever take away from us, and we’ll think about this for the rest of forever. “For (Dan) to be the head groundskeeper and me being a veteran in the major leagues, it just feels cool to share the same field with each other. Great three days for the Kiermaiers. I know my parents were so proud.’’ Kiermaier went 0-for-4 in the first game and didn’t play the second. When he got an RBI double in his third at-bat Wednesday, raising his batting average to .143, he gestured to his teammates in mock celebration. “I’ve been very inconsistent throughout my career, and I’ve been a notorious slow starter my whole career,’’ he said. “This might be No. 1. But I’m in a good spot. Just going to keep working at it. Hitting has never came easy to me and once again this year, kind of thinking a little bit too much up there, putting a lot of pressure on myself. “But I’ll catch my groove, hopefully sooner than later, so no one gets into panic mode or people don’t start freaking out. But I’ll get locked in, and I just need to find a couple of certain little feels, and once I do that, things will start opening up.’’ And on the 14th day, they rest After opening the season under the revised schedule playing 13 consecutive days — more than any other team — the Rays are pleased to finally have one off. “We’re looking forward to (Thursday), for sure,’’ Cash said. “It was a little bit of a grind, no doubt. I know that wasn’t the plan of the original schedule. But it is what it is. We’ll make up an off-day down the road.’’ They do get a bit of a break in also having Monday off. … Similarly, the Rays — especially the hitters — are happy to be heading home after playing six games in wintry conditions, with Wednesday’s first-pitch temperature of 51 degrees the highest of their six games in Chicago. “We’re all looking forward to playing back indoors again,’’ Kiermaier said. “This weather here this week wasn’t a whole lot of fun, but you’ve got to get through it no matter what.’’ Pitching plans Corey Kluber is set to start Friday’s series opener against the Red Sox, and lefty Shane McClanahan the series finale on Sunday. Saturday looks most likely to be a bullpen game, with Chris Mazza, assuming he’s not used Friday, potentially working bulk innings. … Lefty Ryan Yarbrough, sidelined since the start of the season with groin tightness, is slated to make an exhibition start Saturday for Triple-A Durham. If all goes well, he could join the Rays rotation next week. … Reliever Nick Anderson, rehabbing from October surgery to repair a UCL tear by installing a brace, threw off the mound this week for the first time. Miscellany The Rays won back-to-back games for the first time since their season-opening three-game sweep of the Orioles. … Jalen Beeks worked the final two innings to extend his season-opening scoreless streak to 7⅓ and got his first win since Aug. 13, 2020, having missed last season with an injury. … On Tuesday, Wander Franco became the second American Leaguer 21 or younger to homer at Wrigley Field in regular-season or postseason play, joining Jimmie Foxx, who did so in the 1929 World Series. … Tyler Zombro, the reliever who sustained traumatic injuries when hit in the head by a line drive in June, was activated at Durham but did not pitch. … Kluber flew home on a late-afternoon commercial flight at the team’s direction rather than make an early morning arrival with the rest of the club. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.