ST. PETERSBURG — The COVID-19 outbreak in the Rays clubhouse continues to be a concern, although as of Tuesday afternoon catcher Francisco Mejia was the only player sidelined. “A bunch of people came in and retested (Monday) and the report is still not good,” manager Kevin Cash said. “So far, we’ve been fortunate that it hasn’t affected too many players, but it has certainly affected staff and support staff. So we wish them well. “We’re dropping people pretty quick. And we’re doing everything we can to keep it contained.” Mejia has been out since testing positive after the team’s return from Chicago last week, missing the weekend series against the Red Sox. Cash said he didn’t have an update on Mejia’s condition or a timetable yet for his return, but expected it to be within days. “He has done everything on his end to be vaccinated, boosted, all of those things,” Cash said. “So now it’s just a matter of getting some negative tests where … the numbers say that he’s not contagious.” Infielder Yandy Diaz and lefty reliever Jeffrey Springs have missed one game each. Several players and staff were wearing masks Tuesday in the clubhouse and on the field during pre-game drills. The Mariners also have had COVID issues affecting players and staff, including manager Scott Servais and third-base coach Manny Acta, who did not make the trip. For openers Cash said the Rays went with righty Matt Wisler as the opener ahead of lefty Josh Fleming on Tuesday because of their individual strengths and the mix of hitters in the Seattle lineup. “We’re having some success with that opener, it seems like every time somebody’s done it, they have been really efficient, and it’s helped us get a little deeper in the game and push our decision points a little deeper,” he said. “Would not think that we’re going to go away from it anytime soon.” Lending a hand Hitters are always looking to be comfortable at the plate. While he was off to a slow start, Kevin Kiermaier was picking up some of his teammates’ bats and liked the way they felt in his hands. Enough so that Kiermaier, who usually uses Marucci wood, ordered a half dozen of his own 33½-inch, 31½-ounce Randy Arozarena models from Chandler, and that was before he used one to hit the walkoff homer on Saturday night. “Different model, different company, different color,” Kiermaier said. “Baseball players are very superstitious, and it’s just about feel. That’s all it was. It felt much better than my bats.” Arozarena said he was happy to help. “He asked me for a bat. He said my bats have power in them. Obviously, he did what he did,” Arozarena said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “For a good cause like this, I’ll give him all of them if he needs to.” Kiermaier said he plans to keep using the new ones he ordered, with a slight alteration: “I might just pencil in Randy’s name on them — maybe Wander (Franco’s), too — then I might really hit a hot streak.” Miscellany Cash said the Rays likely will stick with 13 pitchers and 13 position players when rosters are reduced from 28 to 26 on Monday; Major League Baseball said Tuesday teams could have 14 pitchers (and thus only three position players on the bench) until May 29, then will be limited to 13. ... Lefty Ryan Yarbrough, out since the start of the season with left groin tightness, will make another rehab start for Triple-A Durham on Thursday. He lasted only one-third of an inning Saturday due to a lack of command but felt fine. … Cash said he left a message congratulating Tyler Zombro, who made his return to the mound Sunday for Triple-A Durham, having sustained traumatic head injuries when hit by a line drive June 3. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.