Every day in America, 17 people die while they are waiting for an organ transplant. Every nine minutes, someone else is added to the waiting list for an organ, tissue or eye donation. And that waiting list has more than 100,000 people on it — nearly enough to fill Raymond James Stadium twice. In Florida and across the nation, there is universal support for donating organs, tissue or eyes to save or improve someone’s life. It’s a core belief in helping someone else live after your own life has ended, and it transcends demographics, politics or religion. More than 100 million Americans are registered as donors, including more than 11.9 million Floridians. While those are remarkable numbers, there is so much unmet need and so many more lives that could be saved. That’s why it’s time for Floridians to have a conversation about changing state law so there are more donors who are happy to help meet this tremendous need. Instead of asking people applying for driver licenses to opt-in to organ donation, we could change the system so that everyone who applies for or renews their license is automatically an organ donor unless they choose to opt out. This should not be a controversial change, given the tremendous support for organ, tissue and eye donations. It would significantly increase the number of potential donors, and there is no question it would save more lives. Beyond that, creating an opt-out system would benefit families who are mourning the loss of a loved one and have so many other issues on their minds. A commitment on the driver license to donate organs, tissues and eyes takes pressure off families who otherwise would have to wrestle with what they believe their relative would have wanted. Too often, family members aren’t certain what their loved one wanted because the issue never came up. A commitment on the driver license to donate to help someone else live provides comfort to families who can be certain they are honoring the wishes of their loved one. I can speak from personal experience. I lost a sister recently. Within the last two years, I lost another sister and my grandmother. Each of them had opted in to be organ donors, and our family took comfort in knowing their intentions were clear and their wishes were carried out. We help carry out those wishes every day at the Lions Eye Institute. We are a nonprofit organization that transforms lives by restoring sight for those with visual impairments and improves quality of life for tissue recipients. We are the largest combined eye bank, tissue recovery and ocular research center in the world. Since our founding in 1973, we have given the gift of sight to 160,000 men, women and children — including 9,000 people last year. Yet there is still so much unmet need for organ, tissue and eye donations. That’s why we should explore changing state law to an opt-out system rather than an opt-in system on driver licenses. And while we’re just starting that conversation, you don’t have to wait to apply for a driver license or renew one to become an organ donor. Go to www.donatelifeflorida.org or www.donatelife.net to sign up. Jason K. Woody is president and CEO of Lions Eye Institute for Transplant & Research in Tampa.