Last year’s NFL draft featured the only-in-a-pandemic wrinkle of evaluating prospects who opted out of an entire season because of coronavirus concerns. Nine first-rounders, including the Bucs’ Joe Tryon-Shoyinka, skipped all or part of their final college season. Here’s a look at what we know so far about whether the year off helped or hurt them at the next level. Quarterback Trey Lance (No. 3 overall pick, 49ers) In college: Lance played in North Dakota State’s lone fall game (two touchdown passes, two rushing scores) but skipped the Football Championship Subdivision’s spring season to focus on the draft. Has it worked out? We don’t know yet. Lance appeared in six games as a rookie, completing 41 of his 71 passes for 603 yards, five touchdowns and two interceptions. He also rushed 38 times for 168 yards and a score. The 49ers are expected to move Jimmy Garoppolo to clear a path for Lance to start this season. Wide receiver Ja’Marr Chase (No. 6, Bengals) In college: After becoming the nation’s top receiver during LSU’s 2019 national championship season, Chase said not playing in ‘20 was “what’s best for my family.” Has it worked out? Yes. Chase was named the offensive rookie of the year after catching 13 touchdowns (third in the league) and totaling 1,455 receiving yards (the most by a rookie in the Super Bowl era). Offensive lineman Penei Sewell (No. 7, Lions) In college: He allowed only one career sack at Oregon and won the 2019 Outland Trophy as the nation’s top lineman. He opted out before the 2020 season. Has it worked out? Yes. Though he was shaky early at left tackle, he played well after moving to the right side midway through the season. He made the all-rookie team and was Pro Football Focus’ No. 6 right tackle after allowing five sacks all season. Cornerback Jaycee Horn (No. 8, Panthers) In college: Horn was one of the SEC’s top defensive backs in 2020 before opting out for the final three games after coach Will Muschamp was fired at South Carolina. Has it worked out? Unclear. A broken foot in Week 3 ended his rookie season early, though he did record five tackles and an interception in his first three games (all starts). Linebacker Micah Parsons (No. 12, Cowboys) In college: The former five-star recruit was likely headed for a monster junior season before leaving Penn State, citing the health risks to him and his son. Has it worked out? Big time. The versatile defender was the rookie of the year, an All-Pro and ranked in the top six in the league in sacks (13) and tackles for loss (20). Offensive lineman Rashawn Slater (No. 13, Chargers) In college: After starting 37 games at Northwestern, Slater opted out as the Big Ten prepared for a spring season and stuck with the decision after the league pivoted back to the fall. Has it worked out? Definitely. He started 16 games at left tackle for Los Angeles and was named to the Pro Bowl. Slater looks like a pillar of a franchise that’s on the rise. Cornerback Caleb Farley (No. 22, Titans) In college: He was the first high-profile player to opt out when he announced in July 2020 that he wouldn’t return to Virginia Tech. He was an all-ACC performer the year before. Has it worked out? Not yet. Farley missed three early games because of a shoulder injury and tore his ACL in his first career start. He finished his rookie season with four tackles and (if healthy) is expected to have a significant role this year. Defensive end Greg Rousseau (No. 30, Bills) In college: He was second nationally with 15½ sacks in his lone season as a contributor at Miami in 2019, then chose to skip 2020. Has it worked out? Yes. Rousseau’s 50 tackles were most among rookie defensive linemen, and he started every game for a Buffalo team that lost in overtime in the division round of the playoffs. Outside linebacker Joe Tryon-Shoyinka (No. 32, Bucs) In college: He earned preseason All-America consideration and was expected to be one of the Pac-12′s top defenders in 2020 before opting out. Tryon-Shoyinka had 41 tackles (14½ for a loss) at Washington in 2019. Has it worked out? We’ll find out this year. He had four sacks and 17 tackles in 17 games (six starts) as a rookie but will have more responsibilities in his second season. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.