CHICAGO — Maybe the three wins against Baltimore provided a false optimism. Or the effects of the short spring training are showing up. Or the pitchers they have faced recently have all been on their games. Because the other conclusion to draw from the past five games would be that the Rays’ offense isn’t very good. Friday was another quiet night, as they were shut down and shut out by White Sox right-hander Dylan Cease into the sixth inning, eventually losing 3-2. That’s four losses in their past five games — yes, of just eight total — and four times in five they have scored three or fewer runs. “We’re just not locked in right now,’’ manager Kevin Cash said. “I think it’s fair to say we’re just not — we’ve got one or two guys, namely Wander (Franco) and Ji-Man (Choi), and then outside of that, we’ve got guys (who) are still trying to get their comfort zone.’’ Tampa Bay’s offense looked to be playing under a cease-and-desist order for the first five-plus innings, managing three singles and two walks against the talented Sox right-hander while striking out eight times. “He was outstanding,’’ Cash said. “Really tough. He’s got good stuff. You understand from the side why he strikes so many people out.’’ Franco, who had two of the hits off Cease, said the Rays just need to keep doing their work. “All good teams have certain down times at times,’’ he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I think with us, as long as we keep on going, I think we’re going to continue to be OK.’’ Yandy Diaz allowed that the limited at-bats that players got during the spring could be an issue, but if so, then they should be primed to “explode” soon. “I think mentally we just have to stay positive,’’ Diaz said, via Navarro. “We’re working out on the field. We’re working out in the cage. And I think just one of these days, the bats are going to come alive.’’ Starter Drew Rasmussen kept his mates close, allowing three runs while becoming the first Rays starter to go five innings. He allowed one run in the second when Gavin Sheets doubled with one out and came around on a groundout and a wild pitch that eluded catcher Francisco Mejia. Then Sox No. 9 hitter Jake Burger got Rasmussen twice. He led off the third with a 430-foot homer on a first-pitch fastball, then in the fifth he singled in Leury Garcia, who slapped a leadoff double. Rasmussen allowed five hits, struck out two and didn’t walk any. “Frustrating with the results, but I thought I threw the ball pretty well,’’ he said. During a fourth-inning interview with Apple TV+ reporter Brooke Fletcher, Cash was quite prescient, telling her, in essence, the Rays’ best chance to win was going to be by knocking Cease out of the game. Once they did so in the sixth, they just about got even while facing lefty Aaron Bummer, who Cash said “is as good as any lefty you’re going to see in the American League probably, stuff-wise.’’ With Brandon Lowe still on first after a leadoff walk, Choi, whose right heel got clipped earlier while playing first base, had another quality at-bat, lacing a double for the Rays’ first run. Diaz followed with a double of his own, scoring Choi. Cash then took his shot, pinch-hitting catcher Mike Zunino for lefty rookie Josh Lowe. But Zunino lined to center for the third out. “I thought Z had a good at-bat as well, laid off some tough pitches,’' Cash said. “Off the bat you were like, it might’ve fallen in. But a strong guy hit it and it carried a little too far.’' The way the Rays are going right now, it’s always something. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.