TAMPA — In the second round of voting in Tuesday’s special City Council meeting, Lynn Hurtak received four votes of her soon-to-be colleagues, making her the newest member of the council and its only woman. Hurtak, 44, an Old Seminole Heights council member, told reporters after the vote that she is a “deeply ethical” person who will bring a wealth of city board experience to the job, which she’ll have to win an election next year to keep. “Council knows me. I’ve come in front of them to speak. I’ve sat with them on other boards and commissions. The council thought highly enough of me that one of them recommended me for the Variance Review Board,” Hurtak said, explaining to reporters right after the vote why she thought council members selected her. “I’m going to do the right thing. That’s just who I am. That’s how my parents raised me.” Hurtak said her priorities are affordable housing. “That’s probably my very first one.” And she said as vice president of the Old Seminole Heights Neighborhood Association she has a track record of finding middle ground between residents and developers. A member for 2½ years on the city’s Variance Review Board — which reviews zoning decisions, among other duties — Hurtak also served on the city’s Charter Review Board in 2018. She is a technical editor and consultant who specializes in the developing world. Hurtak won over attorney Meredith A. Freeman in the second round of voting to replace John Dingfelder, who resigned from the Tampa City Council last month to resolve a public records lawsuit. In all, 23 candidates applied for the vacant seat. Hurtak and Freeman tied in the first round of voting with two votes each. In the second round, council members Bill Carlson, Orlando Gudes, Joseph Citro and Guido Maniscalco voted for Hurtak. Luis Viera and Charlie Miranda voted for Freeman. She joins the City Council at an extremely tense and fractious time. Dingfelder’s resignation was followed within weeks by the city finding that Gudes had created a hostile work environment for a former legislative aide. Gudes has since stepped down as chairperson. Carlson welcomed Hurtak, saying she was joining the council “when it is under attack.” Asked about Dingfelder’s forced resignation, Hurtak said she “wondered why city attorneys did not help him with that,” referring to city attorney Gina Grimes’ decision not to represent Dingfelder, forcing him to spend his own money for his legal defense. “I don’t think any person who is elected or appointed to public office should have to use their own money if they did something in their seat to have to represent themselves or pay for their own representation,” she said. Hurtak said she hadn’t fully reviewed the controversy surrounding Gudes, who last week the city found to have created a hostile work environment. Gudes has said he won’t resign despite calls for him to do so by Viera and Citro. Mayor Jane Castor has said she would remove him from office if she could. Ethan Loeb, the attorney who represented a local business consultant who sued Dingfelder, now represents Gudes’ former aide. Loeb has also filed a legal action and public record requests seeking to establish that Carlson is in some way connected to a Facebook account that has been critical of city officials and others. [Tampa City Council member sued over public records ] Carlson has told the Tampa Bay Times he had nothing to do with the account and doesn’t know “James Reed,” the name on the Facebook page. But he has said he has been targeted by the administration for being an occasional critic of the mayor. Hurtak said she hopes to lower the temperature at City Hall. “I’m a calming presence. You’ll see that from me on the board,” said Hurtak, a former elementary school teacher. “I’m going to be very even keeled.” Hurtak’s selection made her the first woman on the City Council since the city’s 2019 elections, when voters elected an all-male council. She said her perspective as a woman matters. Voters selected the all-male council, she said, but it’s time for a change. “I think it is a good time to right that,” she said. After the vote, council members congratulated Hurtak. “You’re clearly the most qualified person who applied,” said Maniscalco, the chairperson. Many of the nearly two dozen candidates said it was important for the council to be more diverse. Several speakers, including Freeman, said the perspectives of women, Black people and members of the LGBTQ community needed to be represented on the city’s legislative body. “My 10-year-old son needs to see more people who look like me in the halls of power,” Freeman, who is Black, said during her two-minute presentation to council members. Hurtak will be sworn in Thursday at the council’s next regularly scheduled meeting. She said she plans to run for reelection for the seat next year.