298 deaths is significant Prepare for the worst and pray it never happens | Column, April 18 Gary Franks lauds President H.W. Bush’s efforts during the conflict against Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait. But he misrepresents the sacrifices of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who deployed, asserting the conflict ended “with no significant loss of life to U.S. forces or our allies.” A quick review of the Defense Casualty Analysis System report indicates 298 service members died while deployed in theater, with 147 of those combat casualties. Those service members made the ultimate sacrifice in service to the nation, and all had families. Of course it is wise to prepare for the worst case, but it is doubtful any military person would characterize the loss of these military members as insignificant, and neither should any American. Norman F.J. Allen III, colonel, U.S. Army, retired, Tampa The way to truth Where’s the state’s evidence for rejecting 54 math textbooks? | Editorial, April 19 We have watched Gov. Ron DeSantis’ reactionary tactics with alarm. Perhaps transgender issues are not “appropriate” to younger children, but to allow parents to sue teachers is altogether incomprehensible — and utterly wrong. The only way that wisdom is ever attained is through discomfort. We’re sorry, but that is the absolute truth. The only way that history can ever be useful is for us to learn from the mistakes of the past, and to do our best to avoid repeating them. And, for the record, we are both “senior citizens” in our 70s, and Florida natives. No matter what you think, not everyone over 60 believes all the crap thrown at us. And, as a last comment, how can a math book contain race theory? Edith Rudy and MoiraLynn Mefein, Port St. Lucie A questionable ruling CDC mask mandate ends | April 19 A federal district court judge in Tampa, who was appointed by President Donald Trump after the 2020 election, Kathryn Kimball Mizelle, has reversed the CDC’s mask wearing mandate for travelers. In her opinion she asserts that, “Wearing a mask cleans nothing. At most, it traps virus droplets. But it neither ‘sanitizes’ the person wearing the mask nor ‘sanitizes’ the conveyance.” But her order reportedly offers no evidence or references to support her debatable opinion about the benefits of mask wearing. Nor might such evidence be expected from an appointee who was deemed “not qualified” to serve on the federal bench by the American Bar Association, given that she had never appeared in any court in any capacity as a judge or lawyer. But she did serve as a clerk for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Fred Kalhammer, Sun City Center