Airports in Tampa Bay have lifted requirements to wear face coverings after a federal judge in Tampa struck down a national mask mandate on public transportation to limit the spread of COVID-19. Tampa International Airport announced Monday night that masks are optional after the Transportation Security Administration said it will no longer enforce mask wearing. The changes for both passengers and employees went into effect immediately, according to a statement from the airport. St. Pete-Clearwater International Airport also lifted mask requirements. “Per TSA, the federal mask mandate has ended and masks are optional at St. Pete-Clearwater Int’l Airport,” officials wrote in a Twitter post Tuesday morning. Kathryn Kimball Mizelle, a federal judge in Tampa, ruled the Centers For Disease Control and Prevention order superseded its authority. Mizelle was appointed by former President Donald Trump for the Tampa division of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The lawsuit was filed in July by the Health Freedom Defense Fund, a nonprofit group against health regulations, and two Tampa Bay women. The CDC still recommends people should wear masks indoors when using public transportation facilities. President Joe Biden first signed an executive order Jan. 21, 2021, requiring people to wear masks while traveling. The CDC followed two weeks later, requiring facial coverings in transit hubs like bus stations and airports. The Tampa airport required employees to wear masks months before the TSA released guidelines, which then expanded the airport’s requirements, said spokesperson Emily Nipps. Public service announcements and signs about mask wearing have been removed at the airport. “We stepped up our cleaning and sanitation protocols early in the pandemic and those have not changed,” Nipps said. The ruling had mixed reactions among travelers — some rejoiced over the end of the policy and others worried the change will make traveling unsafe as the pandemic continues. One traveler who visited her family for Easter in Gulfport was shocked by the announcement that came a day before her trip back to Philadelphia. “I was shocked, (like) the rug was just pulled (from) underneath us, the travelers,” said Yolanda Roman, who was flying from Tampa International on Tuesday afternoon. She said she would continue wearing a mask when traveling because her mother is in her 80s and her daughter is immunocompromised. Rebecca Davis, a marketing executive who frequently flies between Tampa and Washington, D.C., said it worries her that the mandate was lifted just as cases are rising again in the nation’s capital. Her next flight is Thursday. “It’s not the best timing because we don’t know what will happen,” Davis said. She added that she plans to continue wearing an N-95 mask and will test for COVID-19 more frequently after each trip. Tampa attorney Ron Frey, also a frequent flyer, said he’s not concerned about the rules changing since he thinks the mandate didn’t make much of a difference in the first place. Frey said he’s seen people on flights who don’t wear masks properly or choose to take them off for long periods of time. “It seemed to be a half-measure,” Frey said. “You look to your left, you look to your right, and there’s people eating and drinking for more than an hour.”