Why I will keep wearing my mask Florida joins 20 states in suit over travel mask mandates | March 31 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention used mask mandates in heavily trafficked areas, especially on public forms of transportation, to prevent the spread of COVID. Masks also prevented the spread of other diseases. How many people who wore masks got sick? But they did get inconvenienced and uncomfortable, and now Florida’s attorney general and other states’ attorneys general are suing the CDC. As an asthmatic and a cancer survivor, I wear a mask on all forms of public transportation, and in heavily populated areas. I’ve avoided getting sick for two years. Travel will be more difficult for me and other immune compromised individuals, but I will continue to wear a mask even though others will not. The mask mandate is likely ending, and the lawsuits should end, too. Courtenay O’Connell, Palm Harbor Limits on power Florida joins 20 states in suit over travel mask mandates | March 31 If you can sit with 19,000 other screaming, maskless fans in Amalie Arena, shouldn’t you be able to sit with 200 quiet flyers on a plane, or five other travelers on a bus? It seems reasonable. But then, COVID is on the rise again, with a more infectious sub-variant. Now, 21 states, mostly red, find it necessary to sue the CDC because the government “displays outright disdain for the limits on its power.” Yet many red states are passing laws involving abortion rights, voting regulations, issues of gender identity and what can be discussed and taught in the classroom. Is that not displaying “disdain for the limits on its power”? David Lubin, Tampa Common sense not common High court must protect itself from the Thomas duo | Column, March 29 I could not care less about the political views of the wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. But anyone who has sat on the board of a school, hospital, commission, etc., knows that it is common sense that if something comes before the board for approval and you know or have worked with the person, then you should recuse yourself for appearance’s sake, if nothing else. As a labor arbitrator I have had to do that, and one does not have to be a judge to know that. Although, as Voltaire once said, “Common sense isn’t so common.” Ross P. Alander, Tampa No laughing matter Headline goes here | Date I have a family member who suffers from alopecia. Chris Rock may just as well have been making a joke about an amputee. As trivial as it might seem to the world, alopecia is emotionally debilitating. It is especially harmful to women. In this male-dominated world, female identity is always equated to how one looks. Thank God that that is slowly changing. Mahala Ernst, Brooksville A problem where none existed Governor signs “don’t say gay” bill | March 29 I am a retired educator who taught first grade. Never, in all of the years I taught, did we discuss sexual orientation and gender identity. What we did discuss, illustrate and write about was our families. What happens to the student who has two mothers or two fathers? Can they not share their families with others for fear of offending someone? Are they to be made to feel like something is wrong with their family unit? This bill creates a problem where there is none. Marilyn S. Warner, Clearwater Get what you pay for Editorial cartoon | March 31 This Andy Marlette cartoon depicts a women complaining about how much she pays in taxes for congressional salaries. Well, members of Congress make $174,000 a year. The average congressional district represents 761,169 people. So that 23 cents per person annual salary tax does not seem so onerous. But it does confirm that you get what you pay for. C.J. Moffitt, Odessa