ST. PETERSBURG — Randy Arozarena had a tough challenge in 2021 — delivering an encore to his record-breaking performance in the 2020 postseason. He did, and quite well. Enough to win the Baseball Writers’ Association of America American League Rookie of the Year award, which was presented to him in a brief ceremony before Saturday’s game against the Orioles. Most impressive? “Just the mark on his back that he came into the 2021 season with,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “There’s probably nobody that had more pressure on him to kind of live up to the hype that he created in 2020. “And I thought he handled it really well. There were parts of the season where it was not coming easy for him. But to look at a full season with Randy, to be nominated and win Rookie of the Year, it shows a lot just how talented of a player he is.” Arozarena, 27, said he was excited to get the plaque and easily will find a place for it in his house. “I’m very happy to be able to receive this award, especially because it reflects on the sacrifices I’ve had to make for my family, for myself personally, for all the teammates that I’ve been around that have given me support,” Arozarena said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “That’s what kind of gets me going.” He also acknowledged the support of the fans, who he often engages with during games and saluted during the presentation by holding up the plaque. “I hope just as happy as I am, they are as well,” he said. “They play a fundamental part in the way that I play and the way that I perform out in the outfield. They let me have fun. If I’m excited, they’re excited, so if we can stay on that mutual level, I think that’s what I’m going for.” Fleming steps up in relief role Josh Fleming made the roster as a reliever capable of working multiple innings efficiently and effectively and did just that Saturday, taking over in the fifth for starter Drew Rasmussen with a 5-2 lead and quickly working into the eighth, getting 10 outs on 38 pitches. “He was really good,” Cash said. “Flem is so valuable to what we’re doing here. He does it as efficient as any pitcher maybe in baseball.” Fleming made good use of a new sweeping breaking ball he calls “The Chazzy,” since he throws it using the grip of former Ray Chaz Roe, and which provides a stark contract to his sinker. “It’s two different sides of the plate, so it just makes hitters think a little bit more,” Fleming said. “So it’s definitely going to be advantageous for me.” Miscellany The Rays started 2-0 for the second straight season, though just the fifth time in 25. It is only the second time their pitchers yielded three or fewer runs in each of the first two games. ... Andrew Kittredge joined Rafael Soriano (2010) and Fernando Rodney (2012) as the only Rays to get a win and a save in the first two games. ... The Rays beat the Orioles for the 14th straight time and 20th in the last 21. ... Corey Kluber makes his Rays debut Sunday on his 36th birthday. ... In addition to the batting helmet stickers with the initials JR, the Rays also paid tribute to bullpen catcher Jean Ramirez, who died in January, by taping off his seat on the bullpen bench. … Attendance Saturday was 15,615, a dropoff of close to 10,000 from Friday’s opener. . ... Third baseman Yandy Diaz shifted to the outfield Friday when the Rays went to a four-man alignment vs. Baltimore’s Anthony Santander. … Outfielder Brett Phillips went old school with a new walk-up song, switching to Bob Seger’s “Old Time Rock & Roll.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.