When they started caring A Red Wave is coming | Letter, April 24 Here’s what I think: The GOP didn’t really care about sexual orientation or gender identity until Republicans couldn’t use the law to repress it. They didn’t care about the color of people’s skin, until they couldn’t count on preferential treatment based on the color of theirs. They never cared about other’s political affiliations so long as they could call them snowflakes and commies. They never cared about ethnicity or where people were from, as long as they could rewrite history to hide our country’s mistakes. They never cared if others’ beliefs differed from theirs so long as they could force theirs on them. Gregg Niemi, Tampa Better this way A Red Wave is coming | Letter, April 24 The liberal media and Gov. Ron DeSantis’ Democratic opponents have accused him of being an autocrat or acting without the necessary authority. But the governor is simply doing what the majority of the people in Florida want. He has been bold and decisive and that is why Florida has thrived under his leadership. As a result, this letter is absolutely correct: A red wave is coming. As for the governor’s personal style of governing and his personal character? Let me quote a National Review excerpt from your April 24 “From the left/From the right”: “DeSantis was elected by less than 1 percent of the vote over one of the worst Democratic candidates in history — Andrew Gillum, a (formerly) closeted bisexual man, married to a woman, with a large drug problem and a wafer thin resume.” Now, think about where we could have been. Doug Hardin, Dade City Fix the future A Red Wave is coming | Letter, April 24 To think that we have no responsibility for the sins of the past is absurd. It is about time we call out the past and the many injustices. No one wants to erase the past; they just want to correct the future. Angeline Mctighe, Tierra Verde More than masks Tolerance at 30,000 feet needed as mask mandate goes away | Perspective April 24 The guest editorial from the Chicago Tribune misses an essential point in its discussion of travelers’ mask wearing. Writing that “… we see little point in the Biden administration appealing the decision” misses what will doubtless be the central point of the appeal: Not only will it refute the ill-considered assertions of the Trump-appointed judge, but more importantly will confirm the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s paramount authority in matters of public health. Preserving that authority will be crucial in combatting any future pandemic. Fred Kalhammer, Sun City Center