Pride rose up again House party | April 26 In traveling out of state and arriving back, especially when driving across the Georgia-Florida border, we have a sense of pride in seeing the “Welcome to the Sunshine State” sign. My wife and I drove back from Asheville, N.C., and that sense was missing Monday. It was difficult to feel pride with Gov. Ron DeSantis and the Republican-weighted Legislature passing bills limiting abortions, making voting more restrictive, enacting the “don’t say gay” bill (or whatever you want to call it), the Department of Education casting out math textbooks because of suspected critical race theory, the governor drawing and the Legislature passing new redistricting maps, and now the “civil war” between the state and Disney, just because the governor didn’t like the criticism he received. But then, before going to bed, I saw the video of the Stanley Cup-winning Tampa Bay Lightning meeting with the president on the White House lawn. I saw Ryan McDonagh telling the president what winning the cup meant, owner Jeff Vinik kibitzing with President Joe Biden, and a team of proud men representing Tampa Bay and showing off what’s “in our drinking water,” as the president asked. Indeed, there was some pride left to be felt. David Lubin, Tampa What could have been Better this way | Letter, April 26 Regarding the gubernatorial race between Ron DeSantis and Andrew Gillum, a letter writer asks: “Think about where we could have been.” Yeah. Republican gubernatorial candidate Adam Putnam was on the road to the governor’s mansion when the man I believe to be the worst president in modern times showed up and endorsed DeSantis. We could have gotten a fifth-generation Floridian, a favorite son from Polk County. But we’re saddled with someone who wants to punish Disney World for perpetrating compassion toward a group of human beings who are marginalized by the rest of us. Charles E. Lehnert, Sun City Center Not worth it to me Biden’s student loan forbearance — forever? | Another voice, April 11 My wife read a very good Facebook posting. Basically, the person said, “If you don’t think your college education is worth paying for, why should I?” Tom Craig, Riverview Show me your papers DeSantis signs controversial voting bill, creates election crimes office | April 26 Papers please, comrade. Marv Akers, San Antonio What could go wrong? Elon Musk acquires Twitter for roughly $44 billion | April 26 Tesla CEO Elon Musk? Let’s see. More money than anyone on the planet, frequent unusual behavior and odd statements, undoubtedly potentially the greatest private military capability on Earth, and now unfettered control of one of the world’s largest social media platforms. What could possibly go wrong? Terry Griffin, Lutz