DALLAS — The Lightning had a chance to punch their ticket to the postseason Tuesday night against the Stars at American Airlines Center. There’s not much drama to which teams will make the playoffs from the Eastern Conference, as the eight qualifiers seem all but set. But Dallas entered the game clinging to the final spot in the West by two points and, after a sluggish start by both teams, played with a sense of urgency. The Lightning, with a chance to clinch their fifth straight playoff appearance, didn’t seem to have the same energy. An Islanders shootout win over the Penguins forced the Lightning to win Tuesday to clinch their spot in the postseason, and they struggled to match the Stars’ intensity. If Tampa Bay is treating each game as an opportunity to round into postseason form, this certainly was not a step forward. The Lightning flirted with danger throughout the game, and it seemed just a matter of time before the Stars would break through. It happened with Roope Hintz’s goal with 4:50 left in the third period. Here is what we learned from the Lightning’s 1-0 loss: Second period was one of Lightning’s worst in a while The Lightning had to enter the second intermission feeling lucky to be playing a scoreless game, because the Stars completely seized momentum during a mid-period penalty kill. The Lightning had just five shot attempts in four second-period power-play minutes. Over the same span, the Stars had seven. Dallas forward Luke Glendening had four shorthanded shot attempts in a 21-second span. He fired a wrist shot from in front after a puck slid out to him from the corner, then buzzed around the Tampa Bay zone for three more attempts. If the Lightning had a man-advantage, it sure didn’t look like it. Tampa Bay couldn’t set up its power play, struggling on its entries. From that point on, Dallas tilted the ice, peppering the Lightning net. It didn’t get much better 5-on-5, as the Lightning had just two shots on goal in such situations in the period. In Vasilevskiy we trust Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy doesn’t get booed in very many arenas, but it certainly makes sense that he’s given a cold reception in Dallas for the way he dashed the Stars’ Stanley Cup dreams two postseasons ago. Vasilevskiy received some rest — three days, to be exact — and was in top form Tuesday night. He needed to be, as he faced an onslaught, particularly in a second period that saw the Stars get 25 shot attempts and outshoot the Lightning on goal, 12-6. Vasilevskiy was a little lucky, too, as one shot hit the crossbar and Hintz’s third-period wrister through traffic rolled just wide of the far post past an open net. Vasilevskiy suffered a rare loss to the Stars, but it certainly wasn’t his fault. He entered the night with a 16-3-3 career record against Dallas, including four wins in the 2020 Stanley Cup final. Lightning hurting themselves with penalties Officiating typically gets a little looser come playoff time, but the silly stick penalties that the Lightning too often commit will only get them into trouble. In the first period, two of the Lightning’s more disciplined players — Alex Killorn and Brayden Point — committed egregious tripping penalties that forced the penalty-kill unit onto the ice early and, as a result, took away important ice time from some of Tampa Bay’s top skill players. Mikhail Sergachev was sent to the box early in the third period for tripping Stars captain Jamie Benn after he turned the puck over to Benn in the neutral zone. These kind of penalties drive head coach Jon Cooper crazy, and the Lightning commit a lot of them. Tampa Bay entered the night fifth in the league in minor penalties. Again, some of those calls likely won’t be made in the offseason, but the obvious ones will. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.