ST. PETERSBURG — Though Josh Lowe had struggled offensively for much of his first three months in the big leagues — a .170 average, no homers, 22 strikeouts in his first 16 games — the Rays have stuck with the rookie outfielder, even putting him in the cleanup spot Friday. As Lowe was getting ready in the dugout before going to the plate in the first inning, manager Kevin Cash gave him some rather interesting advice: “Don’t make me look stupid for hitting you fourth.” Lowe seemed to know how to take it. “He told me that and I was kind of like, ‘Oh boy, here we go,’” Lowe said. “That was some good assurance there from skip. That was fun.” Better yet, he knew what to do. Lowe crushed the first pitch from Dylan Bundy over the centerfield fence for a three-run homer that was the big blow in a 6-1 win over the Twins before an announced crowd of 9,928. Veteran starter Corey Kluber also had a big hand in the Rays (12-8) winning their third straight; he bounced back from a rough start a week ago with a dominant outing, allowing just one hit over six innings. Lowe said all the right things about being happy to help the team, and to win the series opener, and to slay a Twins team that came in on a seven-game roll. Finally, the 24-year-old admitted that hitting his first big-league homer also “felt great” to him. “Kind of like (Kevin Kiermaier) was talking about the other day. We’ve always dreamed about that, to do that as a kid,” Lowe said. “For me to do that the first time and run around the bases, that was awesome. A special moment.” Lowe typically doesn’t show a lot of emotion but allowed himself to enjoy his success — pumping both fists as he ran to first, flexing in the dugout with teammate Brandon Lowe, and welcoming all other congratulations. “Certainly happy for Josh Lowe,” Cash said. “He needed that. He needed to feel good and come in and high-five the guys. And the guys were pumped for him.” Lowe, who was the Rays’ top position player prospect after a strong 2021 season at Triple-A Durham, maintained his confidence when asked about his early-season struggles. But he wasn’t unaffected. “Look, he’s been confident,” Cash said. “He was confident in spring training. He’s confident every step of the way. “This game can rattle your confidence a little bit with early lack of success. He was so good last year for us. You want all young guys to get off to a good start but it normally just didn’t go that way. But good for him to stay at it. He got a pitch, he was ready to hit. That was the most encouraging thing besides the ball leaving the ballpark — he was ready to hit right there in moment.” The Rays quickly posted four runs against Twins starter Dylan Bundy, who had allowed just one total in his first three starts, and added single runs the next two innings, including the first 2022 homer by Mike Zunino, who returned to the lineup after being out with a left biceps strain. Kluber took it from there. He allowed 11 hits and four runs over five innings in his April 22 start against the Red Sox, but said he pitched better than the box score indicated. He certainly showed that Friday, retiring the first nine Twins before hitting Byron Buxton to open the fourth and allowing a one-out RBI single, allowing just two baserunners (hit batter, single), striking out six, and getting 11 swing-and-misses. The early lead helped, but he did a masterful job mixing his pitches and making more use of his changeup as the Rays posted their sixth straight game of allowing two or fewer runs. “Tonight maybe just executed a few more pitches in certain spots as opposed to last time (when) I made some mistakes and they took advantage of it,” he said. “I think tonight we were able to kind of establish early that we were throwing all pitches for strikes. “And so I think when that’s the case for any pitcher, I don’t want to say it’s easy at all, but it makes it a little bit tougher for hitters to hone in on one thing or the other.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.