CHICAGO — Phoenix Sanders would like to stay a long time, of course. But just getting to the major leagues made him a success. Though the Rays took Sanders in the 10th round of the 2017 draft out of USF, their commitment to him, as a senior with no negotiating leverage, wasn’t much: a $7,500 bonus (which in draft signings, Sanders acknowledges, was pretty much “nothing”) and a spot with the then-entry-level Princeton Rays roster, working mostly in middle relief. More roster filler than promising prospect. But Sanders impressed the Rays with how serious he was about his career and how he would do whatever was necessary — such as requests to throw his slider harder, or work higher in the strike zone — to keep moving up. “I remember after rookie ball it was, ‘Hey, what do you want to do, start or relieve?’ ‘’ Sanders said. “I was pretty adamant, like, if I’m going to do this, I need to do whatever is going to get me to (then low Class A) Bowling Green. “And they were very up front with it, like, ‘Hey, your best chance is probably as a reliever at this point, are you fine with that?’ And I was cool with that. And it worked out.’’ It did because Sanders was willing to put in the work. “Phoenix reaching the major leagues is a testament to his talent and dedication, and it is also incredibly rewarding for our scouting and player development staff,’’ said Rays baseball operations vice president Carlos Rodriguez. “Since signing, Phoenix has made stops at each of our full-season affiliates, filling a number of roles and persevering through some ups and downs. He and our staff have continued to work on improvements throughout his journey to the point he can now forever call himself a big-leaguer. Quite the accomplishment.’’ Sanders got the first sense that his status in the organization was improving when he was sent after the 2018 season (split between the two Class A affiliates) to the Arizona Fall League, where slots are reserved for prospects. Then came a dominant 2019 showing at Double-A Montgomery, with a late-season promotion to Triple A; a pandemic that idled him and other minor-leaguers in 2020; and a solid (5-2, 3.38 in 50 appearances) but “frustrating’' 2021 with the Bulls, as the Rays used a team-record 38 pitchers, but he wasn’t one. Throughout, he said, team officials were transparent: “They laid it out on the line — if you’re stuff’s good enough, you’ll eventually get a chance. And fortunately I did.’’ Injuries, roster rules and circumstances aligned for Sanders, 26, to get the callup Wednesday night. He caught an early flight from Durham, N.C., to Tampa, made a solid debut Thursday afternoon against the A’s and turned around to fly with the team to Chicago. “Once I can finally relax and really take it all in, it’s going to be, like, “Holy crap, I just pitched three innings in a big-league game,’ ‘’ Sanders said afterward. “And if you would have told me 10 years ago ... you’d be pitching three innings in the big leagues, I would have said I’m just trying to get a junior college scholarship at the time. So yeah, it’s definitely fun, and it’s just something I’ll never forget.’’  Noteworthy homegrown Rays On Thursday, Sanders became the 97th player to debut for the Rays after being drafted or first signed by them. Here are 10 of the best: • LF Carl Crawford, 1999 2nd round • SS Wander Franco, 2017 signee • RHP Jeremy Hellickson, 2005 4th round • OF Kevin Kiermaier, 2010 31st round • 3B Evan Longoria, 2006 1st round • 2B Brandon Lowe, 2015 3rd round • LHP David Price 2007 1st round • RHP James Shields, 2000 16th round • LHP Blake Snell, 2011 1st round • OF B.J. Upton, 2002 1st round And 10 others notable for other reasons: • OF Rocco Baldelli, 2000 1st round • INF Tim Beckham, 2008 1st round • INF Jorge Cantu, 1998 signee • RHP Diego Castillo, 2014 signee • INF Mike Brosseau, undrafted free agent • RHP Mickey Callaway, 1997 7th round • OF Elijah Dukes, 2002 3rd round • INF Aubrey Huff, 1998 5th round • RHP Seth McClung, 1999 5th round • OF Delmon Young, 2003 1st round Rays rumblings White Sox manager Tony La Russa, the Tampa-born Hall of Famer, said he “saw enough’ in three August games to know how good Rays shortstop Wander Franco is: “He’s worth that (guaranteed $182 million) contract they have him after the year. He loves to play. He does everything great.’’ ... Contributions are still welcome after reaching the $25,000 target to help Chloe Grimes, the 8-year-old St. Petersburg girl battling cancer who had the special moments last week with Brett Phillips. See gofundme.com/f/chloe-grimes-princess-warrior. ... Though the Rays had no Black players or coaches with the major-league team on Friday’s Jackie Robinson Day, it can be noted that Ozzie Timmons left in November after four seasons as first base/assistant hitting coach for a bigger co-hitting coach role with Milwaukee. ... The team is working on getting an interpreter for Korean Ji-Man Choi, who is conversational in English but insists on doing interviews in his native language. ... Phillips, the Seminole High local, had quite the week: running the bases with kid fans after last Sunday’s game, making a spectacular sliding catch during an eventful relief pitching appearance Monday, then meeting Grimes before Tuesday’s game and going all Babe Ruth, hitting a home run for her. What’s next, delivering a baby or pulling someone from a burning car? ... The @MLB Twitter account had some fun when Phillips made a diving catch Friday, posting “The Rays put a pitcher in rightfield and he made an INSANE catch!” ... Former Ray Stephen Vogt, still playing, and occasionally catching, at age 37 for Oakland says he hopes to either end up managing or in the broadcast booth. ... Snow is forecast for Monday in Chicago, when the Rays face the Cubs. ... Sanders said his mom had no great reason for naming him Phoenix: “She was young, dumb, 22 and thought it sounded cool.’’ • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.