As the world has fixated on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we have seen unimaginable atrocities. Each day, we hear new stories of hospital bombings, civilians and journalists deliberately shot at and portions of cities reduced to rubble. If you’re looking to point a finger at the wrongdoing of Russian leadership, any direction will do. But finding fault in a time of despair is easy. It takes a special lens to see this situation and find the good that we can not only appreciate, but emulate here in the U.S. We see the transformational leadership role that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has adopted, especially with members of his own military. America needs its own Zelenskyys in Washington. With his steadfast approach, disregard for all personal ambitions and safety, and oftentimes dressed ready for a firefight at a moment’s notice, he shows his military and the world that he leads by example not through advocating, but by participating. When twice asked by the U.S. if he needed evacuation, he responded, “I need ammunition, not a ride.” Zelenskyy knows how valuable his military is and shows it by standing alongside them. If he can show such resolve in the face of imminent danger, why can’t our leaders do the same for our troops here at home? Our country needs more examples of support from political dignitaries and lawmakers that go further than kind words or “battlefield tourism”; 200,000 of us depart the military each year, and I’m afraid that our value diminishes considerably in the eyes of our politicians once we take the uniform off. Much of this care begins with our laws, policies and veteran assistance programs, some of which are commonly known to fall short of what our veterans and service members need. Our Veterans Affairs health care system, while one of the largest, is inundated with backlogged appointments and, depending on where the veteran lives, initial intakes may take more than six months to schedule. With nearly 21 veterans dying by suicide every day, as well as various mental and physical health issues plaguing our warriors, these veterans don’t have that kind of time. This is not a diatribe against our VA system. It is operating in an environment that lawmakers have created for them. It’s with the people on Capitol Hill that the responsibility resides. Our leadership has developed a cognitive dissonance for how their policies impact our warriors, and if we want to fix these issues promptly, we need behavioral change. As veteran suicides continue to double that of their civilian counterparts, we need to show our past, present and future service members that our elected officials stand with them. Like Zelenskyy, our leaders need to truly embed themselves with our military to grasp the full weight of what these warriors go through and what they need to survive after their service, not just in it. Dr. Damon Friedman, a decorated veteran of combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, recently retired from the Air Force as a lieutenant colonel in special operations. He is the founder of SOF Missions, which works with veterans suffering from mental and physical injuries and has provided more than $3 million in care to veterans across the country.