 In 1986, artists Todd Ramquist and Kiaralinda bought a house in Safety Harbor. Over the years, they turned it into Whimzeyland: a multi-colored dwelling in an eye-popping yard of lush plants, painted tile walkways, flowers made of plastic bottles, decorated bowling balls and more. The house at 1206 3rd Street North was and is still known by many in the Tampa Bay area as the “bowling ball house.’’ Yard tours are free, though there’s a donation box to support the Safety Harbor Art and Music Center that Whimzeyland spawned. They own other homes in the neighborhood: one called Casa Loco that is a retreat for artists and musicians. The artists, both 61, who call themselves the Whimzey Twinz, talked with the Tampa Bay Times about Whimzeyland. What did the house look like when you bought it? Kiaralinda: It was beige, which is not a color in our rainbow, in our life. There were no plants. What color did you paint it at first? Kiaralinda: At the time, gray, mauve and white was what everybody was doing as far as interiors… I wanted to make it lavender instead of mauve. … Then, I don’t know how many years later it changed. The whole thing became peach and azalea, plum and a teal color; so that was the second generation. … Then, every single surface became a different color. Did neighbors complain? It’s not deed restricted, is it? Todd: No, not at all. … We actually had the opposite thing happen. … When we were doing the big Christmas installations, people would come to Safety Harbor and see that and say, “man, I’d like to live around here.” Then we have friends that we met here that bought houses down the street and became friends. … All those people were supporters, knew we were artists, knew we traveled all the time. We would do these big Christmas things. We did a lot of street parties, and they all would come to them. You travel the art festival circuit throughout the country, you say, from May to October. Todd: We were doing local ones (festivals), and it would have been a hobby for sure. Then, we got in a show at the Las Olas Art Festival in Fort Lauderdale. A bunch of artists we knew said — “we had a double-booking — they said don’t do the one up here (Tampa Bay area) — do the one down there. It’s a whole different market.” So we went down there (Fort Lauderdale), and we sold every single piece of art work we had in the first two hours of the show. That had never happened before. … My cousin got married in Chicago and we signed up for a little show at Water Tower Place. It was an outdoor thing, and the same thing happened there. We sold basically everything we had. It was a Friday-Saturday-Sunday show, and everything on Friday was gone. Kiaralinda: So we became reverse snowbirds. The bowling ball inspiration struck when you saw a house whose cactus garden was decorated with bowling balls, you say. Kiaralinda: I thought, wow, that’s a bowling ball. They use that for landscaping. We could do that. We could get them cheap, and we were poor. So we started seeing them at flea markets and buying them. And we didn’t buy that many, but we were starting to border the little flower beds. ... Then, we went to a flea market on 49th street, and there was a rack of balls. It (the rack) said, “10 free bowling balls per person.” We were like, “well isn’t that weird. Why would anybody want that except for us?” Todd: I think he probably took over somebody’s spot and they were there, and he just wanted to get rid of them. Kiaralinda: Then, I called my sister and her and her girlfriend got 20. So we had 40. Once you have 40 (bowling balls) in your yard, people start paying attention and start bringing them to you. How many bowling balls do you have now? Todd: There’s between 900 and 1,000. … Kiaralinda: We got one sent from Atlanta in the mail. It’s postmarked, and it didn’t come in a box. Our mailman was freaking out… He was like, “I hope nobody else does that.” How did the art center grow out of this? Todd: Before we had plans, Pepsi did an advertisement for the Super Bowl and they did a program called “Refresh Your World.” If you were a nonprofit… you could bother your friends enough and had a big enough fan base. ... When Pepsi happened, the contest happened during the summer. At the art festivals we’d say, “Hey guys, here’s a card. You can vote for us.” Every single person who bought artwork voted. … so we won $50,000 from Pepsi, and then a private person gave us $55,000. … Those were our only two big giant donations, then everything else was like $5 to $20, but lots of them. So we were able to build it. You had concerts in your yard to raise money for the center, and you say the actor, Jeff Daniels, performed there in front of an audience of 171 people (in 2011)? Todd: We used to do like, $10 dollars, you got pizza and you could “BYOB.” It got more popular every time. … Then, Jeff Daniels found out we were going to build an art center, and he had moved from L.A. to his hometown (Chelsea, Mich.) and built a theater. He had just talked in front of Congress a couple of months before he got here about the power of what can happen if you build artistic things. He built the theater, and all of a sudden the town came to life with restaurants and stuff. … The way we promoted it was “mystery guest.” He said we could give clues but couldn’t say his name. So the first clue was, this person has hosted Saturday Night Live more than once… A lot of people didn’t know he was a musician, so when he walked to the stage everybody went, “oh, Jeff Daniels. What’s he going to do?” What does he play? Todd: Guitar. He’s a really gifted player. He tells stories in between about being in the movies. Kiaralinda: He told everybody to get out their cameras and take a picture, and then put them away so we can seriously pay attention. (He’s) super funny. He was so funny. For more information, go to kiaralinda.com.