The big story: Now that Florida has new law on the instruction of gender identity and sexual orientation, school districts across the state are discussing how they will adhere to it. The conversations arise as some Floridians claim that schools have inappropriate practices and procedures when it comes to these sensitive topics. Many school district officials say they already do most of what the law requires and they’re revising policies and rules to comply with the rest. Teachers also have said they have not done anything to prompt the law in the first place. “There are people in society who think things are happening that are not,” Justin Katz, president of the Palm Beach Classroom Teachers Association, told WPTV. “Teachers are going to teach. They’re going to abide by the standards. They are not going to do things that people think they’re doing to brainwash or manipulate kids.” The Palm Beach School Board began discussing policy changes to meet the new law requirements this week. Read more from WPTV. Hot topics Book challenges: The Brevard County school district is working on a policy to handle district-wide challenges. Officials said a current objection to several titles could take a year or longer to handle, Florida Today reports. Bus driver shortages: The Osceola County school district warned parents that bus delays might be likely Friday if drivers and attendants call in sick for the coming long weekend, WKMG reports. Teacher shortages: About 50 future educators at the University of Central Florida participated in “signing day” to work in Orange County schools in the fall, WESH reports. Other school news The Alachua County school district faces ongoing concerns about the operations of a summer camp it owns. Former superintendent Carlee Simon called for an external investigation into the matter, WUFT reports. Some Manatee County residents have demanded the School Board discipline or fire superintendent Cynthia Saunders over a grading scandal. Board members did not sound likely to take action beyond penalties assessed by the state, the Bradenton Times reports. Planned revisions to school attendance zones in St. Johns County caused quite a stir among parents. The district pulled the plug on the process after rejecting all bids for the new school that was prompting the shift, the St. Augustine Record reports. The Citrus County School Board liked a proposal to bring athletic trainers to its high schools. Members asked staff to bring back a contract, which is estimated to cost just under $500,000 a year, the Citrus County Chronicle reports. Parents at a Miami-Dade County K-8 school are protesting the school’s lack of services. They’ve enlisted outside help to find ways to address the needs of students with disabilities, the Islander News reports. Video surfaced of another fight at a Broward County charter school. Parents are demanding changes, as the association representing the principal said she is not responsible for safety and security on the campus, WPLG reports. From the police blotter ... A Marion County elementary school teacher was arrested on allegations of possession of Ecstasy on campus, WPLG reports. • A Broward County high school was placed on lockdown after a student was found with ammunition, WTVJ reports. • A Broward County teacher faces firing for not reporting his arrest for sexual misconduct with a student, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... Today is National Look Up at the Sky Day. NASA offers some insights on things you might want to look for. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.