ST. PETERSBURG — Brett Phillips figured he owed his mother, Jody, an explanation after Monday’s game. With the Rays down 9-1 and the bullpen short-handed, Phillips, the outgoing outfielder, came on to pitch the final two innings. And while he made an amazing catch by racing off the mound and sliding in front of the A’s dugout — “If I don’t win Catch of the Year for pitcher, I’ll be highly disappointed” — he was down about loading the bases in the ninth including two walks and allowing a grand slam in his second time on a big-league mound. “Pitching performance was a little underwhelming,” he said, averaging 46 mph and hitting a high of 52 mph. “I’m going to have to call my mom and basically explain to her that I just didn’t have my best stuff tonight.” Tongue planted firmly in cheek, Phillips, who allowed a run in an inning against the Jays last July, said he wasn’t surprised he got the call. “One of those situations where we all know that I’m the best off the bench, position player-wise,” he said. “It’s known across the league, OK. It’s no secret.” As for the mechanics of the catch, which he now considers better than any he’s made in the outfield? “Coming off the mound ... when you get going fast off a steep hill like I did, you have more momentum to get to where you have to be,” he said. “Obviously, going back to my Slip ’N Slide days, I know towards the end of the Slip ‘N Slide, you always want to be prepared to bounce back up, because you know you have someone coming behind you and you don’t want to get hit. So (I) slid, popped up, got back where I needed to be.” Tommy Romero set for debut With their starting pitching suddenly in question, the Rays will turn Tuesday to Tommy Romero, a 24-year-old making his major-league debut. Romero was brought up from Triple-A to fill in for Ryan Yarbrough, who was sidelined for precautionary reasons with groin tightness but is expected to start when eligible to come off the injured list April 18. With Luis Patino’s Monday injury, Romero could end up sticking around. The right-hander was promoted to the 40-man roster after an impressive 2021 season split between Double-A Montgomery and Triple-A Durham, going 8-2, 2.61 in 110 1/3 innings over 23 games, striking out 145. “He made a good impression in camp,” manager Kevin Cash said. “I know (pitching coach Kyle Snyder) messed around with some of his pitch usage. “So, good for him. We’re excited. Expectations, I don’t know. I hope he just goes out, fills up the strike zone and gets us as deep as some of the other guys have so far in this early start of the season.” Romero was short on words but big on smiles talking about the unexpected opportunity. “It’s a dream come true,” he said. “It’s something I’ve been waiting for my whole life.” Romero threw Thursday for Durham in Nashville and was with the team getting ready to head back to Durham and start Tuesday’s home opener when manager Brady Williams announced in the clubhouse there was a change in plans. “It was awesome,” Romero said. “Everyone started clapping and cheering.” There was more emotion when he called his mom, and then his dad, at their south Florida homes. “They went crazy,” he said. “My mom couldn’t even believe it. My dad couldn’t believe it. They were just so happy for me.” Romero was acquired in May 2018 as a Class A pitcher from the Mariners, along with the more advanced Andrew Moore, for reliever Alex Colome and outfielder Denard Span, and worked his way through the Rays system. Ryan Thompson returns With Yarbrough going on the injured list (retroactive to Friday) and Romero to be activated off the taxi squad Tuesday, the Rays called up Ryan Thompson, who worked a solid inning. “Looked good,” Cash said. “Happy to have him back.” The side-arming right-hander last pitched in the majors June 27, having been sidelined with shoulder discomfort and eventually undergoing thoracic outlet syndrome surgery. He was one of the last spring cuts and said “disappointment” was the best way to describe his reaction. “I wasn’t upset. I didn’t think anything of it. It was probably good for me in a lot of ways,” he said. “But, you know, I was disappointed. I think anybody would be disappointed. Everybody wants to make that opening day roster. But it’s not about opening day. It’s about winning the World Series. ... I’m in it for the long haul, so just getting my work in and that’s what I’m going to continue to do here is I’m going to take it one step at a time and just continuously improve. Complacency is the thing that will bite you in this game.” Miscellany Wander Franco’s nine hits match Quinton McCracken (1998) for most in team history through four games. .... Monday was the first of the weekday games with 6:40 p.m. start times during April, May and September, when school is in session. The crowd was sparse at first pitch, and attendance was announced at 9,139. … A new series of NFT digital sports collectibles (with daily updated stats) being released at noon Tuesday — and somewhat weekly through June — by Candy Digital includes Randy Arozarena, Shane Baz, Ji-Man Choi, Franco, Manuel Margot, Shane McClanahan, Phillips, Drew Rasmussen and Mike Zunino. A “pack” of five players, sorted randomly, like trading cards from 720 total, will be available for $50 at mlb.candy.com. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.