ST. PETERSBURG — Chris Mazza earned the final spot in the Rays’ season-opening, 10-man bullpen. The versatile right-hander will fill a “very valuable” role, manager Kevin Cash said, with his ability to work multiple innings. “Really appreciate his work,” Cash said. “He can cover innings. He bounces back as good as any reliever that we had last year. And he’s very deserving of being with us for the way he pitched last year, the way he came into spring training.” Mazza, 32, signed a minor-league deal during the lockout to rejoin the Rays and thus was eligible to join the early reportees to Port Charlotte in February and March. Cash said the staff feels Mazza is throwing as well now as at any time in his career, which includes stints with the Mets and Red Sox. “His ball moves everywhere,” Cash said. “It’s darting, sinking, cutting, doing everything. So he can really manipulate the shape to the breaking balls. And we like that.” Mazza had been uneasy the last few days waiting for a final decision and understandably was thrilled to make his first opening-day roster. “I think it’s a great accomplishment,” he said. “My 12th season (of pro ball), first time making an opening-day roster. Talking to other guys ... there’s nothing like an opening day. Last year, I missed it by three days. So I’m really excited. My parents flew in last night. So, really excited for them to get to see me on opening day.” Had Mazza not made the roster, he said his parents would have driven with him to Durham, where the Rays’ Triple-A team is. “This,” he said, “is obviously the better place to be.” With the Mazza decision, here is the 28-man opening day roster the Rays are expected to submit by today’s noon deadline: Pitchers (15): Jason Adam, Jalen Beeks, JT Chargois, J.P. Feyereisen, Josh Fleming, Andrew Kittredge, Corey Kluber, Chris Mazza, Shane McClanahan, Luis Patino, Brooks Raley, Drew Rasmussen, Jeffrey Springs, Matt Wisler, Ryan Yarbrough Catchers (2): Francisco Mejia, Mike Zunino Infielders (5): Ji-Man Choi, Yandy Diaz, Wander Franco, Brandon Lowe, Taylor Walls Outfielders (6): Randy Arozarena, Kevin Kiermaier, Manuel Margot, Austin Meadows, Brett Phillips, Harold Ramirez Injured list (5): RHP Nick Anderson, RHP Shane Baz, RHP Yonny Chirinos, RHP Pete Fairbanks, RHP Tyler Glasnow • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.