CHICAGO — Right quad tightness forced Wander Franco to miss Monday night’s game against the Cubs. But Franco and manager Kevin Cash said afterward that they expect him to be back in the lineup Tuesday. “He feels good,” Cash said. “I would anticipate him being in the lineup (Tuesday), but until I talk to him and check with him (in the morning), I won’t know.” Franco said based on how he felt after receiving treatment throughout the game, and still wearing a portable ultrasound device, he will be good to go. “Of course,” he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Actually, he was preparing to pinch-hit in the ninth for Taylor Walls if Manuel Margot had gotten on with two outs. The multi-talented shortstop said he felt “a little bit of something that bothered me” while taking swings in the batting cage Monday afternoon and told the medical staff, which led to him being scratched from the lineup about an hour before first pitch. Franco had started each of the Rays’ first 10 games, with a DH day on Saturday, and was hitting .318 with no homers and five RBIs. Walls shifted from third to shortstop, and Yandy Diaz went into the lineup at third. Josh Fleming ready for elements Right-handed reliever Matt Wisler will be the opener Tuesday, with lefty Josh Fleming expected to work the bulk of the innings. Fleming, having pitched three seasons for Webster University in St. Louis, figures he is prepared for whatever weather Chicago has to offer. “I enjoy pitching in cold weather,” he said. “Most of our (college) games were in the beginning of February in St. Louis, where it was just as cold if not colder. I’ve pitched in games where it was snowing in college. So it’s not really new to me. But it is still challenging because we saw (Sunday) how cold it was and guys having trouble gripping the ball and stuff.” Kiermaiers’ family business After catching up during a leisurely Sunday night dinner with their wives, Kevin Kiermaier and older brother Dan got back to baseball business Monday to start their three-game family reunion. The Rays centerfielder “helped” the Cubs’ head groundskeeper by doing some raking and helping set up the cage for batting practice as part of their interview for the Marquee Sports Network, and talked more about their paths from kids in the stands at Wrigley to now.. “A lot of great childhood memories here,” Kevin said. “And then now to make grown-up memories here on a big-league field, it’s surreal.” Monday’s game didn’t go well, as he was 0-for-4 with three strikeouts. Miscellany New reliever Javy Guerra said he was excited to join the team after several days in limbo that were “a little confusing” — he spent them in a San Francisco hotel — between being designated for assignment Tuesday by the Padres (who were playing at the Giants) and acquired on Saturday by the Rays. Guerra pitched the eighth, allowing a two-out homer to Frank Schwindel. ... First-pitch temperature was 40 degrees with a “feels like” of 34, and 16 mph winds. ... Ryan Yarbrough (groin tightness) is slated to throw off a mound at the Trop on Tuesday with the potential to make a rehab start this weekend and join the rotation next week. … Tommy Romero was sent back to Triple-A to work as a starter with the message from Cash to “get your (velocity) back up, get your command where it was.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.