Hillsborough County was already expecting one hard-fought state House race this year, but it’s looking likely to have at least two. Early fundraising figures from candidates in the race for the South Tampa-based District 65 — covering much of the area currently represented by Rep. Jackie Toledo, R-Tampa — show at least two Republican candidates and one Democrat starting with strong cash totals. Democrat Jen McDonald’s initial fundraising report shows she raised $50,943 in March, her first month as a candidate. Meanwhile, Republican Karen Gonzalez Pittman, who switched from a school board race to the House race March 7, has since raised $80,235. Pittman had a head start. She had raised $31,515 in two months as a school board candidate before jumping into the House race when Toledo announced she was leaving her seat open to run for Congress. Pittman said she refunded all her school board race contributions, but her House fundraising report shows many of the same donors then contributed to her House race. More than 50 of her 136 House campaign contributions came from physicians or medical offices — she works for a vein care clinic operated by her physician husband. Toledo has endorsed Pittman as her successor. Republican Jake Hoffman said his fundraising report for March, which wasn’t filed at deadline for this column, will show a total of $70,000 to $80,000, including a $50,000 contribution of his own money made when he entered the race in November. Hoffman said he expects the primary will be a two-way contest between himself and Pittman. A third Republican in the race, Michael Minardi, couldn’t be reached for comment this week and hadn’t filed his March fundraising report, due next week, by this column’s deadline. Previously filed in a different district, Minardi also switched into the District 65 race after Toledo’s announcement. The district has a Democratic lean — the area it covers voted 52-47 percent for Joe Biden over Donald Trump, according to political mapping expert Matthew Isbell. But Toledo has held it since 2016. The well-funded state Republican Party is likely to spend heavily to hold onto the seat while Democrats believe they can flip it, which portends a hard-fought race. A similar contest is expected in the narrowly GOP-leaning District 69 in southeast Hillsborough, where Democratic Rep. Andrew Learned faces a challenge from Republican Danny Alvarez, who entered the race in February. Neither had filed a fundraising report for March by late this week.