The Hillsborough County School Board is scheduled to vote Tuesday on whether to put a special property tax on the August ballot. The measure comes as the board has struggled for years to balance its books, and as it looks to retain and recruit talented teachers to America’s seventh-largest school district. Supporters still need to make the case, but putting the tax on the ballot is the first step for enabling voters to decide. Schools superintendent Addison Davis recommended this week that the board pursue an additional property tax of $1 for every $1,000 in assessed value. For a property owner with a homesteaded residence assessed at $150,000, the tax would amount to $125 per year. The levy would generate $126 million annually, which the district would spend on employee raises, teacher recruitment and training and a host of other classroom investments, from augmenting arts and physical education programs to expanding workforce development initiatives to meet the evolving labor demands of the region. Four of the board’s seven members, meeting in a workshop this week, expressed initial support for moving forward. Three members — Stacy Hahn, Karen Perez and Melissa Snively — voiced reservations, arguing that many residents are suffering from soaring housing costs and other inflationary pressures. That’s certainly true. But the vote Tuesday addresses a much narrower issue: Is the district’s budget a valid concern, and should Hillsborough voters have a chance to express their commitment at the ballot box? The answer to both is a resounding yes. Nearly two dozen counties in Florida have opted to impose a supplemental property tax. That backfills a shortage in financial support from the state, helping these districts plug gaps in the classroom and better compete for teachers. For example, in 2020, Pinellas voters overwhelming renewed a special school property tax of 50 cents on every $1,000 of taxable value that goes mostly toward teacher raises, with the rest supporting arts education, reading programs and classroom technology. Of course, another county’s tax is not alone justification for Hillsborough to adopt one, too. But that many large counties in Florida have won similar approval shows that Hillsborough would hardly be unique in asking its constituents for additional funding. Communities across Florida have historically looked to supplemental taxes as a way of expressing their local priorities. Counties have imposed a range of levies to fund everything from schools and indigent health care to children’s services and environmental protection. Ballot initiatives are a means for communities to define themselves. Putting this tax to a referendum is no different. Supporters will still need to make the case that Hillsborough deserves the money. Officials say the district is working on a fiscal recovery plan to put Hillsborough on solid footing after years of chronic spending imbalances. The district hired a consultant to study school boundaries, but it must confront continued inefficiencies, such as operating dozens of schools that are a third or more empty. And any messaging campaign must be credible and transparent. This week, Davis predicted the campaign — which must be financed by private money — would cost up to $750,000, but he deferred when asked who would be involved, telling board members he would meet with them individually to answer that question. Secrecy isn’t going to work here. There will be a time to address the merits of any tax, the district’s record in turning its finances around and the stakes for supporting or opposing the levy. Going forward Tuesday kicks off that conversation. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.