In a move that continues to generate controversy and confusion, the Florida Department of Education has refused to recommend 54 math textbooks to school districts, alleging publishers have tried to indoctrinate students. Republican leaders said the books either failed to meet Florida’s new standards or contained references to “unsolicited strategies” like social-emotional learning or “prohibited topics” like critical race theory. Social-emotional learning refers to strategies for teaching students how to manage their emotions, develop empathy, solve problems and make decisions. State officials offered no examples of the material they found offensive, but did provide titles of the math books that were rejected. The titles are listed below under the names of the companies that published them. Asterisks denote textbooks that contain references to the unwanted strategies and topics. K-5 mathematics Big Ideas Learning *Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Grade K *Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Grade 1 Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Grade 2 Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Grade 3 *Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Grade 4 Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Grade 5 Houghton Mifflin Harcourt *HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Go Math! (Kindergarten) HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Go Math! (First Grade) *HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Go Math! (Second Grade) HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Go Math! (Third Grade) HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Go Math! (Fourth Grade) HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Go Math! (Fifth Grade) McGraw Hill Florida Reveal Math, Grade K *Florida Reveal Math, Grade 1 Florida Reveal Math, Grade 2 Florida Reveal Math, Grade 3 Florida Reveal Math, Grade 4 *Florida Reveal Math, Grade 5 Savvas Learning Company (formerly Pearson K12 Learning) enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade K *enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade 1 enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade 2 enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade 3 enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade 4 enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade 5 Grade 4 accelerated mathematics Accelerate Learning *STEMscopes Florida Math McGraw Hill *Florida Reveal Math, Grade 4 Accelerated Foundational skills in mathematics 3-5 Accelerate Learning *STEMscopes Florida Math Grade 6 accelerated mathematics Houghton Mifflin Harcourt HMH Florida’s B.E.S.T. Into Math, Accelerated 6 Grade 7 mathematics EdGems Math Florida EdGems Math Course 2 Savvas Learning Company enVision Florida B.E.S.T. Mathematics Grade 7 Grade 7 accelerated mathematics Math Nation Math Nation: Florida’s B.E.S.T. 7th Grade Accelerated Math Grade 8 mathematics: pre-algebra EdGems Math Florida EdGems Math Course 3 McGraw Hill *Florida Reveal Math Grade 8: Pre-Algebra Foundational skills in mathematics 6-8 Carnegie Learning, Inc. Carnegie Learning FL Foundational Skills in Mathematics 6-8 Algebra 1 Link-Systems International Sofia Algebra 2 Big Ideas Learning Florida’s B.E.S.T. Standards for MATH Algebra 2 with CalcChat and CalcView Link-Systems International Sofia Algebra 2 honors Math Nation *Math Nation: Florida’s B.E.S.T. Algebra 2 Honors Algebra 1-B Agile Mind Educational Holdings, Inc. Intensified Algebra 1 (Vol 2) , 2021 Edition Mathematics for data and financial literacy Savvas Learning Company *Thinking Quantatively Communicating with Numbers Foundational skills in mathematics 9-12 Carnegie Learning, Inc. (dba EMC Publishing & Mondo Ed) Carnegie Learning FL Foundational Skills in Mathematics 9-12 Mathematics for college algebra Savvas Learning Company *Algebra and Trigonometry Precalculus honors Cengage Learning *Precalculus with Limits, 8e Houghton Mifflin Harcourt *Functions Modeling Change *Precalculus Savvas Learning Company *Precalculus *Precalculus Enhanced with Graphing Utilities Geometry Link-Systems International Sofia Math Nation *Math Nation: Florida’s BEST Geometry Mathematics for college statistics Savvas Learning Company *Elementary Statistics: Picturing the World *Stats in Your World Probability and statistics honors Bedford, Freeman and Worth Publishing Group *Statistics and Probability with Applications Savvas Learning Company *Stats Modeling your World Mathematics for college liberal arts Savvas Learning Company *Thinking Mathematically • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.