ST. PETERSBURG — Having allowed the Mariners to come from behind to beat them five times and six overall last year, the Rays went into Tuesday night’s first meeting of this season vowing to change their ways. Instead, the Rays beat themselves. A seven-run fourth inning was the breaking point in what ended up an 8-4 Seattle win. “Just a rough inning for all of us,” manager Kevin Cash said. “(Josh Fleming) did some good things getting the ball on the ground. We didn’t help him defensively like we normally do. … “Everything that could go their way went their way, everything that couldn’t go our way (it) felt like that’s what took place. But you’ve got to find a way to overcome it, whether you get a swing and miss in there for a big strikeout or make a play behind him. We’ve got to be better than allowing that inning to snowball.” The breakdown was ugly as the Rays (9-8) made two costly errors (by shortstop Wander Franco and first baseman Ji-Man Choi) and had an unsuccessful replay challenge. Fleming threw 44 pitches in walking one and hitting one, and the Mariners sent 11 to the plate though they scored the seven on only four hits. “Just seemed like everything that could go wrong did,” Fleming said. “Just one of those games that just kept spiraling downward and downward and didn’t seem like anything could or would go our way. That’s baseball. That’s the best I can describe it.” Adding to the downbeat night, top catcher Mike Zunino left with a left biceps injury that will be checked further Wednesday (though there is optimism it won’t require an injured list stint), and the Rays had to use six pitchers as they open a stretch of playing 16 consecutive days; they already were planning for at least one game — currently Friday — to be a bullpen day. On the plus side, Rene Pinto rapped a homer for his first big-league hit, and the Rays at least made it interesting by scoring four in the seventh. The fourth inning started benignly, with a single by Jesse Winker, a walk to Eugenio Suarez and a J.P. Crawford line out. Franco fielded Abraham Toro’s grounder up the middle to start what could have been an inning-ending double play, but messed up the toss to second baseman Brandon Lowe, with the safe call surviving a replay challenge. “The ball just kind of came up on me and stuck on my hand and I threw it and it just kind of got away from me. Things happen,” Franco said, with assistant hitting coach Brady North interpreting. “Of course it was very, very tough to see that all happen after that.” With the bases then loaded and just the one out, Choi charged in to field Tom Murphy’s check-swing grounder but bounced his throw to the plate and past Zunino, allowing two runs to score. “That wasn’t an easy play,” Cash said. “I’m not convinced with a perfect throw that he’s out. Him and Fleming are kind of criss-crossing right there. But it looked like he just kind of rushed and didn’t have the best grip.” From there, the Mariners piled on. Julio Rodriguez doubled in a run. After Dylan Moore was hit by a pitch, Adam Frazier bounced a ball over Choi’s head and down the rightfield line, allowing three runs to score. A single by Ty Franco made it 7-0, and the game was pretty much over. So what is it about the Mariners, who have now beaten the Rays in nine of their 11 games, and 32 of 47 since 2014? “I don’t know,” Cash said. “I wish I knew.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.