TAMPA — Steven Stamkos wasn’t in a celebratory mood following the Lightning’s 4-3 loss to the Red Wings on Tuesday night. With his three-point game, Stamkos tied Marty St. Louis as the franchise’s leading scorer with 953 points. “It sucks to have something that’s special for me to happen in a game that we don’t win,” Stamkos said. “I definitely have Marty on my mind tonight. He still means a lot to me in what I’ve become as a person and as a player, just the role model that he’s been to me. And to have your name right up there with the great Marty St. Louis is pretty humbling, pretty, pretty surreal.” Stamkos reached the mark with a primary assist on Ross Colton’s game-tying goal 43 seconds into the third period. Parked behind the goal line, Stamkos found Colton between the circles and Colton wristed a shot past Detroit goaltender Thomas Greiss. Stamkos also had the primary assist on Colton’s first goal in the second period and the secondary assist on Nikita Kucherov’s score in the same period that cut the Detroit lead to 3-2. St. Louis, now the interim head coach for the Canadiens, served as mentor during Stamkos’ first five seasons in the league. Stamkos has often credited St. Louis’ tutelage for helping him grow as a young player. “When you think back and remember all the amazing times that we had together on the ice and the amazing career that Marty had and what he means to this community, it would be nice to tie that in a win,” Stamkos said. “But it was kind of a cool moment, to me anyway, to just have that kind of rush of everything that Marty’s meant to me.” Stamkos will have the opportunity to surpass St. Louis on Thursday at home against Toronto. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.