Let’s grow stronger Women’s history month Now that Women’s History Month has drawn to a close, I wanted to highlight the Hillsborough County Commission on the Status of Women. The volunteer members of this diverse group of influential women include health care providers, representatives from our higher education institutions, leaders of vital nonprofits and distinguished appointees by the Hillsborough Board of County Commissioners. We advise the county commission on issues important to women throughout our region and represent our community’s female population. We believe that every woman in Hillsborough County deserves to prosper and support their family in a healthy and safe environment. The women of our county should be able to enjoy purposeful and meaningful lives. However, without an emphasis on helping women be successful in the workplace, this cannot happen. As we marked “Equal Pay Day” on March 15, the headlines from CBS News showed that the pandemic has made this an even more challenging goal: “Women are Leading ‘the Great Resignation,’” and “Child Care Costs Keeping Many Women from Returning to Work.” As we adjust to a world forever affected by COVID-19, we urge our local employers, governmental leaders, women in positions of influence, to not just build back the previous house of cards in our community but to instead make sure our unique voices and challenges as women are not just acknowledged but included when decisions are being made. Let’s reshuffle the deck and create a world that is far stronger because of the diverse perspectives to which we give equal consideration. Lee Lowry, Tampa The best and the worst The bullies’ pulpit | March 27 Could anyone possibly read Barry Golson’s exemplary article without reflecting on W.B. Yeats’ famous passage from “The Second Coming”: “The best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.” It has indeed become a hideous world, with emboldened bullies and tyrants the world over. John McMasters, St. Petersburg A course I could have used I teach high school econ and am glad for Florida’s new financial literacy law | Column, March 31 As a student and an individual that would have benefitted from gaining financial literacy, I believe that it is extremely important to teach students early in their lives money management skills on a personal level and how to interpret and make intelligent business decisions; whether it be banking, saving money, everyday spending, investing, long-term financial planning or making decisions on a large purchase that maybe associated with loans, percentage rates and terms. In addition to being able to manage money more efficiently, financial literacy would help one understand how credit works, how to create a budget and save for retirement. I strongly feel that the next coming generations will benefit from having financial literacy. Brayana Pettit, St. Petersburg Love your kids We already don’t say gay, so what’s the real problem? | Column, March 31 As Gov. Ron DeSantis has signed the so-called “don’t say gay” bill into law, I have a request of all parents. Love your kids and let them know it every day. Love them even if you don’t agree with some of the decisions they make in their lives. Differences in politics, religion and lifestyle are never reasons to stop loving and supporting your children. Linda Thies, Dunedin Hold them accountable UF report flags Ladapo hiring | April 1 There is a political stink engulfing Florida’s surgeon general, Dr. Joseph Ladapo. That odor has pervaded and tarnished the reputations of Florida’s public health system and the University of Florida, recognized nationally among the top public universities. His recommended policies relating to masking and vaccines have run counter to those of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention relating to the pandemic. Serious accountability is needed. His hiring with tenure at UF requires investigation. Marc Yacht, Hudson The writer is the retired director of the Pasco County Health Department. You get what you vote for Requirements to be in Congress American voters too often seem to choose their congressional members the way they choose their wine — by the label. How many of us look into their qualifications such as character, experience, knowledge of the world and its history, their capacity to understand complex issues, their temperament and ability to reason? The people who fill Congress have some of the most important jobs in America, but how many of us know that to run for these jobs you need only three qualifications: age, citizenship, and residency. That’s it. No particular education level, no particular experience, and no knowledge of anything is required. What company would hire a CEO or any executive based only on age, citizenship and residency? But our representatives and senators are the people we expect to prevent World War III, deal with climate change and environmental issues, understand and regulate the internet and social media, respond to Russian and Chinese aggression, cyber crime, currency manipulation and trade imbalances, comprehend cyber currencies and regulate them — and so many other issues. We voters need to pay more attention and stop voting party line if we expect to get a Congress that we can respect. We have to elect people who are competent and determined to do what it takes to help all Americans live strong, prosperous, and healthy lives. Susan Harper, St. Petersburg