Have CNN viewers try Fox Changing the channel. What if Fox viewers watched CNN instead? | Perspective, April 10 Why didn’t we find out what would happen if CNN viewers watched Fox instead? Why didn’t the professors study the other direction and compare the results? The article concludes by saying that Republicans criticize liberal media but gleefully participate in it. On the other hand, liberals refuse to engage with “right wing media.” I believe it comes from their inability to defend and justify their viewpoints on so many issues. This study and the lack of offering a comparative study is a perfect example of liberal bias by omission. Doug Hardin, Dade City Most aren’t watching Changing the channel. What if Fox viewers watched CNN instead? | Perspective, April 10 According to Nielsen data for March, Fox News primetime viewership was up 19 percent from a year ago to an average of 2.86 million and CNN primetime viewership was 1.22 million, up only 1 percent. (And CNN was down 56 percent for the quarter, but the war in Ukraine boosted its viewership last month.) Perhaps it is simply a matter that more than twice as many people find Fox News to be a more credible source of information. But remember, most adults in the country are watching something else anyway — or nothing at all. Dave Loeffert, Dunedin What he said Those rascally Republicans | Column, April 10 Putting my frustration, angst and even anger regarding the actions of the Florida governor and Legislature into words is challenging. But Daniel Ruth’s column not only beautifully reflects my exact feelings but accomplishes the task with humor and factual clarity. Bob McKendrick, New Port Richey Landlords have expenses ‘Existing, not living’ | April I manage a rental house in St. Petersburg. The Tampa Bay Times often reports tenant hardships, but landlords have hardships, too. Owners’ expenses have gone through the roof. Last year, property taxes increased $375.95 and are already too high because such property is not homesteaded. Worse is insurance. With no claims or changes in coverage, in 2020 the cost was $3,017, 2021 was $3,671, and now is $4,430. Except for a fixed-rate mortgage, all other expenses also increased. Landlords have no choice but to raise the rent. In the end, tenants pay these costs. It is unfair to portray landlords as fat cats raking in huge profits when that is not the case. Lawmakers need to realize that increasing taxes and allowing insurance companies to raise charges is the ultimate blame for rent hikes. Hardy Bryan, St. Petersburg