While Donald Trump has yet to officially declare his intentions vis-à-vis 2024, early indicators suggest that the former president may indeed be preparing for an encore White House bid. However, Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine may spell trouble for Trump should he seek another term, particularly here in the Sunshine State. A recent survey conducted at the University of South Florida suggests that Trump’s sustained admiration of Vladimir Putin, along with his disparagement of the NATO military alliance, may be sharply divergent from the opinions of most Floridians, including those Republicans on whom Trump would be most heavily dependent in a primary race. The survey — conducted between March 31 and April 12 — asked a representative sample of 600 Floridians to share their thoughts on the current conflict. The results suggest that most Floridians (79 percent) are paying close attention to the war in Ukraine, and a majority support a robust American response. Respondents were asked to share their thoughts on the economic sanctions imposed by the United States in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Among them, a third (34 percent) said that the U.S. response has been appropriately aggressive, but a plurality (45 percent) said that “the U.S. response has not been aggressive enough.” Furthermore, an overwhelming majority of Floridians (74 percent) indicated support for the U.S. providing additional military aid to Ukraine (in the form of conventional arms and ammunition). The evolving conflict in Ukraine has also bolstered public opinion around America’s participation in the NATO military alliance. When asked, more than three quarters of respondents (77 percent) said that NATO is either “very” or “somewhat important” to America’s security, with over 50 percent saying “very important” and another 12 percent being “unsure.” These opinions expressed by an overwhelming majority of Floridians stand in stark contrast to Trump’s prior statements and policy positions. As recently as late February, Trump expressed his admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calling his invasion of Ukraine “genius” and “savvy.” The statement echoed a sustained pattern of praise that the former president has lavished on the Russian dictator since his 2016 presidential campaign. Additionally, as president, Trump alienated a number of U.S. allies when he referred to NATO as “obsolete” and even proposed withdrawing the United States from the alliance during his term as president. Trump’s public comments on Putin and NATO represent a sharp departure from those made by President Joe Biden — as well as many members of his own party — who has publicly labeled the Russian dictator a “war criminal” and described Russia’s escalating aggression in Ukraine as “genocide.” Recent reports suggest that the U.S. and other NATO states are now considering expanding the alliance as early as this summer — to include Sweden and Finland — in an effort to thwart further Russian aggression in the region. Admittedly, support for Biden’s handling of the conflict has remained sharply divided along partisan lines. However, the recent survey results suggest that most Floridians share Biden’s assessment of the conflict despite Trump’s prior electoral success in the state. This includes a majority of the state’s Republican voters, who favor a more aggressive sanctions regime against Russia (60 percent) and additional military support for Ukraine (75 percent). It remains unclear if and how Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has affected Trump’s approval ratings in Florida (and beyond). However, as each day brings new evidence of Russia’s war crimes and atrocities in Ukraine, it’s difficult to envision a scenario in which Trump’s previous statements and policy positions would not come back to haunt him in a reelection bid. Should Trump seek reelection, Florida would be central to his campaign strategy. In a primary contest, the former president would likely face more “hawkish” challengers from his own party, candidates whose views on Russia appear to be better aligned with those of fellow Republicans here in the Sunshine State. In a general election, Trump’s statements may stand in even starker contrast to President Biden’s firm repudiation of Putin, as well as his successful marshalling of the NATO alliance. It remains unclear whether this distinction would be enough to cost Trump an electoral victory in Florida, but it’s hard to imagine that it would help. Stephen Neely is an associate professor at the University of South Florida’s School of Public Affairs. The USF study was conducted as an online survey using Prodege MR, a leading market research provider. The survey referenced in this article was conducted between March 31 and April 12. A representative sample of 600 adult Floridians was collected via a stratified, quota sampling method, with balanced quotas (by region of the state) for age, gender, race, ethnicity, education, and political affiliation. The results are reported with a 95 percent confidence level and a margin of error +/- 4.