TAMPA — Not that long ago the Lightning were atop the Atlantic Division standings and owned the second-most points in the Eastern Conference. Now, they find themselves jockeying for playoff positioning in a tight race for seeding, stuck in the bottom half of the eight East playoff teams. With 11 games to go, they sat in the first wild-card position entering Saturday. Aside from the luxury of a few more nights sleeping in their own beds, home-ice advantage means little to them. Last season, they won their second straight Stanley Cup from the No. 3 position in the Central Division, claiming their first two first playoff series without home ice. “You always look at it, but I don’t think it’s our main concern,” forward Alex Killorn said. “Regardless of what happens or where you end up, you’re going to have to beat that team (ahead of you) either in the first round or the second round. ... I think we just were worried more about playing the right way and kind of peaking at the right time.” Tampa Bay is 6-8-2 in its past 16 games dating to the morning of March 7, when the team had a division-leading 90 points, second-most in the conference. “It’s just little consistencies on structure things and obviously penalties have been something that we’ve talked about,” captain Steven Stamkos said. “It’s about trying to minimize that. But it’s really just having some confidence going in. Obviously, we can lean on past experiences come playoff time, and we’ll certainly lean on that, but there’s no secret you want to be feeling as good as you can heading into (the postseason).” The Lightning have struggled in many ways. They are the fourth most-penalized team in the league (4.28 a game), they have gone through a scoring drought in which their top players struggled to find the back of the net, and they have had issues defending their own net, leaving Andrei Vasilevskiy on an island to weather bad turnovers that ended in odd man rushes of poor coverage in their own end. The reigning Conn Smythe winner certainly can carry the team, but that’s not ideal in the postseason, and his teammates need to show they can protect him. Over the past 16 games, the Lightning have allowed 3.06 goals per contes. Prior to Friday night’s 2-1 overtime loss to the Bruins — a game the Lightning saw as a step in the right direction — they had allowed 15 goals in their previous three games. Coach Jon Cooper has said numerous times that it starts by playing well in the defensive end. The Lightning need to focus on staying stout in front of their own net, possessing the puck and playing physical. They can win games against teams like Chicago — a 5-2 victory on April 1 in which there was no hitting — on skill, but as shown in a 6-2 loss to Toronto, they will lose a track meet against contending teams. Skill alone doesn’t win games in the playoffs, though. The Maple Leafs play the skill game well, but have been unable to find a winning formula in the postseason with it. “They’re flat right now,” Lightning TV color analyst Brian Engblom said of the Lightning. “And when you’re flat, your skill game is just not as sharp. You’re not moving the puck. And so therefore you have to fall back on your defending. ... The Lightning play way better when they play physical. They are a physical team. “Everybody around the league talks about how they have incredible skill. Yes, they have incredible skill. That’s not what wins it for them. That’s why they have Pat Maroon, that’s why they have big guys like Erik Cernak. (Mikhail) Sergachev can play heavy. Guys like (Anthony) Cirelli, they’ll punch somebody in the head. Nobody messes around in front of the net. That’s why you have those skirmishes. That’s why they win.” Games against the Capitals and Bruins — teams with postseason pedigrees that can play heavy games — will help. “It’s been a playoff week,” Cooper said Friday. But the Lightning will have to find that grit in their own game in the final weeks of the regular season. Over the past two postseasons, the Lightning protected leads in low-scoring games. They played with patience with the puck. They had synergy defensively. Engblom said that’s what he will be looking for down the stretch. “If you can’t play defense, if you can’t stop what the other team’s doing, then you are going to lose,” Engblom said. “They know that and it’s about getting them to focus back on the other side. ... “Let’s say they go 6-2 but they lose the last two games. I wouldn’t worry too much, depending on what it looked like in the last few games. Is the game going in the right direction? Are they patient? Do they have that win 2-1 mentality?” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.