TAMPA — If the Lightning are going to go far in the playoffs, they’re going to have to beat teams like the Bruins. While the Lightning aren’t looking for moral victories, they saw their 2-1 overtime loss to Boston on Friday night as a step in the right direction though it was their fourth straight defeat. The Lightning (43-20-8, 94 points) didn’t get the two points they needed to overtake the Bruins (45-21-5, 95 points) for third place in the Atlantic Division standings, but they did find positive signs that their play is improving with 11 games left in the regular season. Friday’s game was the last of three this week against Eastern Conference contenders. The Lightning went 0-2-1 against Toronto, Washington and Boston. They remained in the top wild-card spot. While the Lightning ended their regular-season series with the Bruins losing three of four, Friday’s loss might have been their most well-rounded game of the four. “If we play the way we played (Friday), you’re going to win way more games than you lose,” said center Pierre-Edouard Bellemare, who scored the Lightning’s only goal and anchored a line that dictated the tempo with a heavy game. “And that’s the key point on that. Trust the process.” Boston offered a superb measuring stick. The teams know each other well. In the regular season, they play tightly contested games and seem to bring out the best in each other, not to mention the Bruins came to Tampa having won 10 of their previous 13. In the end, Boston center Charlie Coyle’s goal with 1:23 left in overtime was the difference. Lightning center Brayden Point was able to break up Coyle’s initial shot on the rush, then went behind the net for a possession battle with Bruins forward Jake DeBrusk. But the puck rattled behind the net, went off the end boards and slid to Coyle, who had a open look at the net from in front. “(The puck) just bounced in front of the net,” said Lightning defenseman Victor Hedman. “Unfortunate bounce.” Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy made 35 saves, but counterpart Linus Ullmark matched him save for save down the stretch, finishing with 28. After Vasilevskiy withstood a Boston surge in the second period — in which the Bruins outshot Tampa Bay 15-6 — to keep the scored tied at 1, the Lightning made a push in the third but couldn’t break through. Midway through the period, Nikita Kucherov sprung Point for a breakaway, but he was denied by an Ullmark left pad save. Moments later, defenseman Erik Cernak just missed with a shot off the post. Forward Anthony Cirelli also hit a post in the first period. “The process was really good,” coach Jon Cooper said. “You need a push in the third, and I thought we gave it. The puck didn’t go in for us, and sometimes that happens. But if you’re to go through to regulation and just give up one goal, you give yourself a chance to get points. “Did we want two? We did. We got one. Let’s take it and move on. Could we have easily gotten two? We could have. “It was a pretty even game, but I like the way things went on. But now it just can’t be one and done.” The Lightning penalty kill was 3-for-3 against a Boston power play that was without leading goal scorer David Pastrnak, who’s hurt. With 4:15 left in regulation, Tampa Bay killed an Ondrej Palat hooking call. Tampa Bay’s power play had its chances, totaling 10 shots, but it went 0-for-5. “There was good puck play,” Hedman said of the Lightning’s game. “We were able to get some sustained pressure on them, and we didn’t spend a whole lot of time in our own end, it felt like. We did a lot of good things. “The (penalty kill) came through there at the end, and that’s what you need. Obviously, we need to bear down on the power play, and we had a lot of chances, but at the end of the day, it’s about the process, and (Friday) was a good step.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.