NEW ORLEANS — For the 48th time over 47 years of unparalleled coaching, Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski took the slow walk to midcourt and shook the hand of the North Carolina coach who beat him. After that, he found his wife, Mickie, and they made the slow, sad walk, hand in hand, off the Superdome floor. Saturday night’s 81-77 loss in the national semifinals marked Coach K’s last loss, and one of his toughest. And thanks to the Tar Heels, the 75-year-old coach will have plenty of time to get over it. “I’m sure at some time I’ll deal with this in my own way,” the coach said. Krzyzewski’s legendary career came to sudden close after Caleb Love made a key 3-pointer and three late free throws to lift North Carolina to its thrill-a-minute victory in the, stunningly, first NCAA Tournament matchup between the longtime rivals. This was the 258th, most consequential and maybe, just maybe, the very best meeting between these teams, whose arenas are separated by a scant 11 miles down in Tobacco Road. The eighth-seeded Tar Heels (29-9), of all teams, pinned the 368th and final loss on Krzyzewski. His lifetime record against Carolina fell to 50-48. Nos. 47 and 48 are ones Carolina fans will treasure forever. This one came exactly four weeks after the Heels ruined the going-away party in Coach K’s final home game at Cameron Indoor Stadium back in Durham. That loss hurt. This one stopped the coach’s last-gasp, storybook run one win away from a title game and a chance at his sixth championship. Krzyzewski said he had a locker room full of crying players when it was over. “It’s not about me,” he insisted. “Especially right now. I’ve said my entire career that I wanted my seasons to end where my team was either crying tears of joy or tears of sorrow. Because then you knew that they gave everything.” They gave everything all the way through the nip-and-tuck stretch run that Duke played without a timeout. When the final buzzer of his career blared, Krzyzew­ski shook the hand of UNC’s rookie coach, Hubert Davis. On Monday night, Carolina will go for its seventh national title, facing the tournament’s lone remaining No. 1 seed, Kansas. “Dwelling on the two wins against Duke doesn’t help us against Kansas,” Davis said. Maybe not, but what a game. It featured 18 lead changes and 12 ties. It also featured another breakout performance from Love, whose 28 points after an 0-for-4 start were one more than what he put up in the second half of a win last week against UCLA in the Sweet 16. Teammate R.J. Davis added 18. “It means everything to me,” Love said of his key 3 with 25 seconds left. At around the 2-minute mark, the teams traded three straight 3s. Wendell Moore’s long-range shot with 1:19 left ended the flurry and gave Duke a 74-73 lead. It was the last lead of Krzyzewski’s career. RJ Davis came back with two free throws. After Duke sophomore Mark Williams, in foul trouble all night, missed a critical pair from the line, Carolina worked the ball around the perimeter. Tar Heels guard Leaky Black set a thumping pick on Trevor Keels to free up Love, who drained a 3 for a four-point lead and what felt like massive breathing room. Love made three more free throws down the stretch, then it was over. Krzyzewski and his wife walked off the floor together, same as they had after the four NCAA wins during the run to his record 13th Final Four. Near the other bench, Hubert Davis was crying, much as he did last weekend when his team punched its ticket to its NCAA-record 21st Final Four. “I felt like over the last two or three years , North Carolina wasn’t relevant,” said Davis, whose biggest win came a year to the day after Hall of Famer Roy Williams announced his own retirement. “North Carolina should never be irrelevant. It should be front and center with the spotlight on them.” Freshman Paolo Banchero led the Blue Devils (32-7) with 20 points, and his classmate Keels had 19. Another freshman, A.J. Griffin, never really got untracked, finishing with only six points. Chances are Griffin and Banchero will be following Krzyzewski out the door. They are the latest in his revolving door of one-and-done players, though neither they nor Zion Williamson in 2019 could lead Duke back to the promised land. Krzyzewski’s 47-year, Hall of Fame coaching career (42 of those at Duke) ends with an NCAA-record 1,202 wins. North Carolina is back on the verge again, looking for its second title in six years. Win or lose, though, 2021-22 will always be remembered as the season North Carolina sent Coach K packing for good. One team’s agony is another team’s joy. The happy team has more work to do. “All I’m thinking about are these players,” Hubert Davis said of his own squad. “Coach K is unbelievable. That team is the best team so far that we have played. And we just happened to make more plays tonight.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.