TAMPA — Long before Steven Stamkos was within reach of the Lightning’s career points record, he leaned on Hall of Famer Marty St. Louis for guidance. Stamkos on Thursday surpassed his mentor, becoming the franchise’s most prolific scorer during an 8-1 victory over the Maple Leafs at Amalie Arena. With three points, including a goal, he upped his career total to 956. St. Louis was 33 when Stamkos entered the league at age 18 as the ballyhooed future of the franchise. At different stages of their careers, they were teammates for parts of six seasons. St. Louis earned assists on 101 of Stamkos’ goals, most of any teammate. Stamkos returned the favor by helping on 66 of St. Louis’. Now Stamkos, at 32, has followed St. Louis’ path not only as a team captain and prolific scorer, but also in marriage, fatherhood, leadership and as a Stanley Cup champion. Lightning coach Jon Cooper said he’s seen Stamkos evolve from a “wide-eyed renegade kid to now a mature captain and father.” Stamkos credits St. Louis’ tutelage for helping him get there. “He still means a lot to me from what I’ve become as a person and as a player, just the role model that he’s been to me,” Stamkos said after tying St. Louis’ mark with his 953rd point in a 4-3 loss to the Red Wings on Tuesday. “And to have your name right up there with the great Marty St. Louis is pretty humbling, it’s pretty surreal.” Stamkos entered this season with St. Louis’ mark within reach, and he’s gotten there with one of the best seasons of his career in Year No. 14. Stamkos’ 90 points lead the Lightning, and his 56 assists are just three shy of his career high with five regular-season games remaining. “On the ice, obviously, different kinds of players, but at the same time, hard-working guys that want to be difference-makers every night,” said Lightning defenseman Victor Hedman, who entered the league one year after Stamkos. “The production (Stamkos) had, it’s been phenomenal. The games that he’s missed and still, you know, only 32 years old and he’s tied the record already, it says a lot about his determination and his skill level.” Despite a litany of injuries that have kept Stamkos off the ice over the years, only the Capitals’ Alex Ovechkin (780) has more goals than Stamkos (473) since Stamkos entered the league in 2008. “I have a front-row seat to one of the greatest goal-scorers in NHL history,” Lightning forward Pat Maroon said. “What he does on the ice, he’s one of the best players in the league for a reason, and that’s why he’s probably going to score 600 goals in this league.” Only Sidney Crosby, Patrick Kane and Ovechkin have more points than Stamkos since Stamkos entered the league. “With the injuries that he had, pretty severe injuries earlier on in his career, and to see how he’s come back and has been so consistent and had such longevity, you look at how many points he’s had this year, how great and consistent he’s been, it’s pretty special,” said longtime teammate Alex Killorn. “Whenever you have (956) points, you’ve had an unbelievable career and you’ve been able to sustain it for a long time. So I’m just hoping he can do it for as long as possible.” Stamkos took over the captainship from St. Louis after the Lightning traded St. Louis to the Rangers and Stamkos returned from a broken tibia in 2014. Over the years, Stamkos learned a lot about leading from St. Louis, from knowing when to be vocal to when to keep things light. “I think Stammer definitely looked up to Marty a lot,” Killorn said. “They definitely have different leadership styles in a certain sense, but there are some similarities. Definitely pretty vocal guys in the locker room. Marty was that, and Stammer is definitely that now. … He’s similar in a lot of ways. “Marty was a prankster, always had a good joke, and just listening to him laugh made you laugh. You didn’t even know what he’s laughing at. That was kind of a funny thing about Marty. Stammer’s definitely got some of those characteristics, for sure.” On the ice, Stamkos has given the team what it has needed from him this season. He was one of the league’s leading scorers in the early going, when Nikita Kucherov and Brayden Point were injured. Now, having played across three lines, Stamkos has become more of a playmaker, drawing attention and setting up open teammates while continuing to be a force on the power play. “He’s scored a ton of points with his speed and his shot, but the thing that strikes me is he’s able to play the game with his head up and make plays,” said assistant coach Jeff Halpern, a Lightning teammate during Stamkos’ first two seasons. “Whereas a lot of guys don’t have full vision on the ice, he’s kind of developed that over his career. “He’s gone from the prolific scorer he still is to a playmaker — the guy who can make those passes and make those plays. Like every good scorer or athlete in any sport, they’re able to reinvent themselves in different ways.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.