Leadership lesson (not). If you want to see what’s wrong with Florida’s Democratic Party, google state Sen. Annette Taddeo. The Miami Democrat announced Wednesday she will boycott next week’s special legislative session on congressional redistricting. Taddeo is protesting the highly unusual move by Republican legislative leaders to defer to Gov. Ron DeSantis to draft a new congressional map, the latest in a series of moves by Republican legislators to appease the governor. Their decision to defer to DeSantis on a process historically led by the Legislature has caused ripples among voting rights groups and redistricting experts alike, and it’s underscored how centralized power in Florida has become under this governor and Republican dominance. Taddeo says she opposes “wasting taxpayer money to go” to Tallahassee. “I’m not going to play the game anymore, I am not here to play the game. I don’t need an elected position, I have a job,” she said. Actually, her job is to go to Tallahassee. How can Democrats fault Republicans for being straw men when they are no-shows themselves? Floridians deserve more from a state senator, especially one seeking the Democratic nomination for governor. In a statement, U.S. Rep. Charlie Crist, also running in the Democratic gubernatorial primary, said he believed it was important for Democrats — who are outnumbered in both the Senate and the House — to speak on the floor. Building a record for a court case is essential. So is representing one’s constituents. 22nd Street South. Civic and business leaders performed a valuable service this week by calling attention to the hard-won bustle along St. Petersburg’s 22nd Street South corridor. Those attending a luncheon Tuesday sponsored by the St. Petersburg Downtown Partnership heard the latest on the planned renaissance of the city’s former center of Black culture and entertainment. St. Petersburg’s first Black mayor, Ken Welch, was in the house, reflecting the profile these projects have on the radar at City Hall. About 13 construction and redevelopment projects are active in the corridor, including multi-purpose buildings, affordable townhomes, commercial space and other mixed-use development. “I don’t want people to leave here thinking there has not been any action in this corridor. We have just built up over the last 10 years to this,” said Veatrice Farrell, executive director of The Deuces Live, the organization working to revitalize the historic corridor and promote the community’s deep cultural roots. “So please don’t leave thinking that things were not here. It’s just exploded, like now.” The mayor and civic leaders need to keep raising the visibility of the corridor, and do what they can to make these efforts grow, take root and flourish. Not “pro-life.” It was no surprise that Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a measure Thursday banning most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. But while the governor of freedom took a victory lap for another crackdown, let’s remember an inconvenient fact: This legislation isn’t “pro-life;” after all, 94 percent of all abortions in Florida already occur in the first trimester, so this ban would not stop them. What it is — more precisely — is cruel, plain and simple, a talking point for conservatives in Republican-controlled Florida made at the expense of women who are scared, abused or left without options. The law includes no exceptions for rape or incest or human trafficking. And it steals the decision from parents who desperately want to have a baby but who later learn the fetus has such horrible medical issues that it may survive birth only to die after a short painful life. Ultimately, the courts will decide the fate of House Bill 5. But let’s not let political messaging hide the ugliness and hypocrisy of this law. Homer for Chloe. Tampa Bay Rays outfielder Brett Phillips provided the feel-good story of the week, which called attention to the courage of Chloe Grimes. The 8-year-old, who is battling cancer for the second time, met Phillips before Tuesday’s game. She gave her favorite Ray a softball with his name on it, a personalized photo of herself and a blue-green rubber bracelet that read, “Rally For Chloe Our Princess Warrior.” A couple of hours later, Phillips — wearing the bracelet — delivered a remarkably unforgettable moment, launching a towering home run. “I told her she gave me her power, and she sure did,” Phillips said after the game. “I told her that I would try to do something special for her. It’s just crazy.” The story, of course, went viral; a GoFundMe account to help the family with expenses got a big boost from the attention, with donations increasing from $5,700 before Tuesday’s game to $26,871 by late Friday, surpassing the goal of $25,000. As Phillips said: “This is an 8-year-old girl who is battling cancer for a second time and chooses to smile and bring Brett Phillips gifts. Like, come on. Who am I every day not to put on the lens of love and joy because she does? Like, what is my excuse? So, really cool.’’ Indeed. Speaking of baseball. The Tampa Tarpons home opener this week marked history as Rachel Balkovec stood as the first woman to manage a Major League Baseball-affiliated team. The 34-year-old has worked more than a decade to propel herself toward the top of a male-dominated industry, and now at the helm of the Tarpons, the Single-A affiliate of the New York Yankees, who play at George M. Steinbrenner Field in West Tampa, she is leading by example. Balkovec understands the significance of being the first woman to hold her position. She’s pushed through discrimination, self-doubt and identity loss as an athlete and coach, and her perseverance has inspired players, other coaches and legions of fans, including the girls who gather outside the Tarpons’ dugout for autographs. It’s nice to have another overdue, well-deserved first on display right here in the Tampa Bay area. What better way to show support than by checking out a Tarpons home game? Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.