The U.S. Department of Labor just delivered a $4.3 million reminder about why local officials cannot shirk their responsibility to oversee obscure agencies and nonprofits that receive taxpayer money. That’s how much the feds want repaid after finding that two local career training agencies intentionally set up systems “to avoid implementing internal controls, leading to improprieties, conflicts of interest, undue influence and other program risks.” An appalling lack of oversight allowed corruption to fester, as it so often does. Now the bill has come due. CareerSource Pinellas and CareerSource Tampa Bay were supposed to train workers and help them find jobs. A Tampa Bay Times investigation in 2018 unearthed misspending, falsified records and fraudulent job placements, much of it fostered by then-CEO Edward Peachey to help create the mirage that the agencies were remarkably successful at placing people into jobs. Staffers received bonuses for posting high placement numbers, and the agencies handed out millions of dollars in gift cards without confirming how the money was spent. Some people who received gift cards did not even use CareerSource to find jobs. Peachey was ousted after the Times investigation, and in 2019 the Labor Department issued a blistering report confirming much of the Times findings. The report criticized the lack of oversight and described how Peachey was able to handpick candidates for the agency boards who county commissioners then appointed without much questioning. Peachy controlled the board by manipulating administrative structures and “by exercising complete control of all communications, operations and outcomes,” the report said. Board members and elected officials’ “failure to exercise proper fiduciary oversight created an environment vulnerable to mismanagement, waste, fraud, and abuse to occur undetected.” Let’s see — give a charismatic leader nearly absolute power, take away internal controls and sprinkle in little external oversight? It’s the oh-so-familiar recipe for abuse. And yet it was allowed to bake for years until the local newspaper sniffed it out. CareerSource Pinellas and CareerSource Tampa Bay (which operates in Hillsborough County) may have dodged a bigger financial bullet. The 2019 Labor Department found $17.6 million in questionable costs. In that context, $4.3 million doesn’t sound as bad. Now the issue becomes who pays? The feds made it clear the money cannot come from federal funds. The Hillsborough agency said insurance should cover at least part of the $2.5 million it owes. CareerSource Pinellas had money set aside from the sale of a local building that should cover its $1.9 million. No matter how the money gets paid back, the financial scandal has left a lasting stain. The lesson, hard learned once again: Don’t dole out taxpayer money without proper oversight. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.