ST. PETERSBURG — Shane McClanahan initially had a couple words for how he started Friday’s game — and the Rays’ season — hitting Baltimore’s Cedric Mullins with the first pitch. “Not ideal,” he said. Asked in a scrum of reporters at his locker to elaborate, McClanahan said he couldn’t: “It’s not safe for TV.” The rest of the first inning didn’t go much better, as he worked his way into, then eventually out of, a bases-loaded jam. The second didn’t start well either, then the Rays’ hard-throwing lefty got on a bit of a roll, retiring nine of his next 12 batters, six on strikeouts, and finished with 4 1/3 scoreless innings in the 2-1 win. “I think I felt my groove right after the second,” he said. “Started to find the zone a lot better, started to execute pitches, and good things happened.” McClanahan was lifted after allowing a one-out single in the fifth, on his 68th pitch. He naturally wanted to stay in. Manager Kevin Cash felt it was time to turn it over to the bullpen, using six relievers to get the final 14 outs. “Drove his pitch count up a tick high, but happy with the way his stuff looked, the way he kind of settled in,” Cash said. “They had some good at-bats against him. He had to make some big pitches in multiple innings.” As for the historical accomplishment? McClanahan was the first to hit a batter on his team’s first pitch of a season since 2016, when ex-Ray Rich Hill did so for Oakland. Wander world Wander Franco enjoyed everything about his first opening day — the team win, his three hits, and roaring ovations he got from the sellout crowd. “It was marvelous,” Franco said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I love them and they love me a lot. So I love it.” Franco, at 21 years and 38 days, became the youngest player in franchise history with three or more hits on opening day, and the youngest to do so in the majors since 2011, when Starlin Castro (21 years, eight days) did so for the Cubs. It also was the seventh time in 71 career games Franco had at least three hits. The Lowe down The Rays said after trading Austin Meadows they brought up Josh Lowe to play a lot, and they seem to have meant it. Lowe was in Friday’s lineup as the DH against O’s lefty John Means and will be in the outfield Saturday. “We feel like his bat is very potent, (whether it’s a) righty or lefty he’s facing,” Cash said. “And if he gets on base, he can impact us on the bases as well.” Miscellany Friday was the first game of the Rays’ 25th season, and their 3,785th overall, and the first time they won scoring two (or more) runs and both (all) coming on sac flies. … The Rays improved to 13-12 on opening days and 13-12 in home openers. … They extended their win streak over Baltimore to 13 games, after winning the last 12 and 18 of 19 last year. … Randy Arozarena, wearing presumably some new lucky cowboy boots with his uniform pants pre-game, will receive his Baseball Writers’ Association of America 2021 American League Rookie of the Year award prior to Saturday’s game. … Impressive anthem performance by St. Petersburg native Khalea Lynee, a previous contestant on The Voice, filling in for saxophonist BJ Jackson, who was delayed when his Thursday night flight from Atlanta was canceled. He arrived to perform Take Me Out to the Ballgame during the seventh inning stretch. … Brendan McKay was recalled from the minors and put on the big-league 60-day injured list primarily to create an opening on the 40-man roster. But doing so also allows him to do his rehab from thoracic outlet syndrome surgery in the majors; he is already throwing live batting practice. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.