Editor’s note: This editorial contains two graphic images of war. The Russian pullback from around Kyiv over the weekend has revealed a grim scene of devastation and death, including what appears to be mass killings and the intentional targeting of civilians by Russian soldiers. As of Sunday, a task force had found 410 civilian bodies in the Kyiv region, and that appears to be just the beginning of a much higher death tally. War is grisly. Civilians often get caught in the crossfire, but they aren’t supposed to be marked for death. As the U.S. and its allies decide where to go from here — including whether to charge Russian leader Vladimir Putin as a war criminal, as President Joe Biden declared him again Monday — the first-hand accounts from cities like Bucha and Irpin must be part of the calculus. Quotes from around Kyiv: “I recognized him by his sneakers, his trousers. He looked mutilated, his body was cold.” — Bucha resident Tetyana Volodymyrivna, describing the horror of finding her murdered husband. “They hit him a bit above the heel, crushing the bone, and he fell down. Then they shot off his left leg completely, with the boot. Then they shot him all over.” — Bucha resident Hanna Herega describing how she said Russian troops killed her neighbor, who had gone out to gather wood for heating. “They beat me, asking, ‘Where are the Ukrainian soldiers?’ and ‘Who in town is in the Territorial Defense Force?’” — Vitaly Sinadin, a 45-year-old sculptor, who said he was tied to a metal pole for two days in a cinderblock house used by Russian forces as a base. “This is genocide of the Ukrainian population. That is exactly what the Russian regime, the Putin regime, the Russian army, is doing. Killing civilians with tied hands behind their backs and shots in the head.” — Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko on a self-made video as he toured Bucha. “This is hell that needs to be documented to punish the inhumans who set it up on our earth.” — Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said in a statement posted on Facebook. “What did the Ukrainian city of Bucha ever do to Russia? How did this all become possible? … You couldn’t have not known that was inside your children.” — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, in a speech, breaking into Russian to direct his remarks toward mothers of Russian soldiers he accused of executing civilians. “They shot everyone they saw. They shot the gas pipe, too, and her mother was in the house.” — Svitlana Munich, a former classmate of a woman who was killed by Russian troops outside her home in Bucha. The body lay nearby as she spoke. “They were civilians.” — Serhiy Kaplishn, a coroner in Bucha, who upon returning to the city on Saturday, said his team had so far collected more than 100 bodies during and after the fighting and the Russian occupation. Source: Associated Press, Times of London, The Washington Post, The Evening Standard, CNN, The New York Times, Bloomberg Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.