TALLAHASSEE — Gov. Ron DeSantis on Wednesday signed 42 bills, including a heavily debated measure that will change staffing standards in nursing homes. The nursing home industry lobbied for the measure (HB 1239), which drew opposition from the senior advocacy group AARP Florida and other critics who contended it would reduce care for residents. The most controversial part of the bill involves certified nursing assistants, who provide much of the hands-on care in nursing homes. Current law requires that certified nursing assistants provide a minimum of 2.5 hours of direct care per resident per day. The bill would reduce that to two hours. Also, current law requires that certified nursing assistants and licensed nurses provide a weekly average of 3.6 hours of direct care per patient per day. The bill would keep that 3.6-hour average, but it would allow time spent by other types of workers, such as physical therapists and occupational therapists, to be factored into the calculation. Supporters said the changes would provide more flexibility to nursing homes and help address staffing shortages. “Facilities can use respiratory therapists, mental health therapists, social services, occupational therapists that will care for the residents based on their unique and individualized needs,” Kristen Knapp, a spokeswoman for the Florida Health Care Association, a nursing home industry group, said Wednesday before DeSantis signed the measure. But opponents, including representatives of AARP and the Service Employees International Union, which represents nursing home workers, said they are concerned about certified nursing assistants spending less time with residents. “It reduces the time that (certified nursing assistants) spend with nursing home residents by 20 percent, and we are absolutely opposed to a cut in nursing home care,” AARP spokeswoman Jamie Mongiovi said. DeSantis’ office announced the bill signings in a news release after 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. Among the other measures signed: The bills passed during the legislative session that ended March 14. By Jim Saunders and Tom Urban • • • Tampa Bay Times Florida Legislature coverage Sign up for our newsletter: Get Capitol Buzz, a special bonus edition of The Buzz with Emily L. Mahoney, each Saturday while the Legislature is meeting. Watch the Florida Legislature live: The Florida Channel, a public affairs programming service funded by the Legislature, livestreams coverage at thefloridachannel.org. Its video library also archives coverage for later viewing. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news from the state’s legislative session. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.