CHICAGO — The Rays open a six-game stay in Chicago for series against the White Sox and Cubs with temperatures in the 40s and Friday’s batting practice rained out. The rain is expected to clear and the game to be played, though there could be a slight delay. Players wore thermal gear under their uniforms and had a choice of heavy sweatshirts and jackets to pick from, along with beanies and ski masks. Drew Rasmussen, who said he had plenty of experience growing up in the Pacific Northwest playing in cold temps, will start for the Rays. Dylan Cease will be on the mound for the White Sox, who are managed by Tampa’s Tony La Russa. Today is Jackie Robinson Day across the majors, and the 75th anniversary of him breaking baseball’s color barrier. The Rays, like all other teams, will have their players and coaches wearing No. 42, which, new this year, is in Dodgers blue. There are also socks with Robinson’s image. “I think MLB gets a lot of these initiatives right,” manager Kevin Cash said. “Just the added element of putting (the No. 42) in Dodger blue, everybody that came in the clubhouse commented on it. I thought the socks were awesome — it’s like an image of Jackie. I don’t know how they did that and got it printed. They’re very cool. “Other people have spoken way better than I could about the impact that he has had on our game, but it certainly is an honor to be able to represent what he did for baseball.” Cash said the Rays’ pitching plans remain somewhat in flux. He did say rookie Tommy Romero would make his second big-league appearance Sunday, but it wasn’t decided yet if he would start or work behind an opener. Also, Cash said Ryan Yarbrough (groin tightness) would not come off the injured list and start Monday against the Cubs, but that it might not be much later. “He could pitch in Chicago,” Cash said. “It has not been decided yet.” Yarbrough did not travel with the team. Tonight’s game is exclusive to Apple TV+ , meaning there is no Bally Sports Sun coverage. You can watch for free by downloading the Apple TV app or using an Apple ID to sign in to tv.apple.com. Or you can watch if you have a subscription to MLB.TV. Wander Franco will be mic’d during the game. Here is the Rays lineup: And for the White Sox: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.