We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “Why Do Smart Republicans Say Stupid Things?,” by progressive columnist Dana Milbank in the Washington Post. The context, from the author: The Ginni Thomas text messages revive a question that has been nagging me since the dawn of the Trump era: What makes smart people say truly stupid things? The excerpt: Recent advances in cognitive science suggest that highly intelligent people are more susceptible to “identity-protective cognition,” an unconscious process in which they use their intellect to justify rejecting facts inconsistent with their partisan identity. “The really upsetting finding is that the better you are at particular types of cognitive tests … the better you are at manipulating the facts to reflect your prior beliefs, the more able you are to cognitively shape the world so it fits with your values,” says David Hoffman, a University of Pennsylvania law professor who studies cultural cognition. “You are able to take whatever unambiguous facts that exist in the world and run them through your own sausage-making mill to make it fit what you want.” From “Education Reformers Are Waging a War on Play,” by Nora De La Cour in Jacobin. The context, from the author: For decades, education reformers have proposed academic performance, measured by standardized testing, as the solution to inequality. It doesn’t work, and it’s losing Democrats votes. But most important, it’s costing kids the opportunity to learn through play. The excerpt: The fact that Democrats are managing to lose education votes shows just how little the public is motivated by the bootstraps accountability narrative to which they’ve committed themselves. People don’t respond well, it appears, to policies that surgically remove fun from childhood. And they don’t appreciate the illogical, scolding suggestion that their hardships were caused by poor study habits. From “When Abortion Isn’t Abortion,” by Mollie Wilson O’Reilly in Commonweal. The context, from the author: Pro-life slogans are simple, but women’s needs aren’t. The excerpt: Like most Catholics in the post–Roe v. Wade generation, I grew up hearing very little about miscarriages and a great deal about abortion. I thought I knew what abortion meant: abortion is murder; abortion stops a beating heart; abortion is a mortal sin. I did not know that, in medical terms, a miscarriage is a “spontaneous abortion.” When my first pregnancy ended, I was stunned to see the word “abortion” in my medical file. There I was, a woman who would never consider “having an abortion,” and yet somehow, very much in spite of myself, I already had. FROM THE RIGHT From “Be Like Chris Rock,” by Eric Boehm in Reason. The context, from the author: The comedian won the Oscars by telling bad jokes, dealing with the consequences, refusing to escalate or apologize, and doing his job. The excerpt: Physical violence in response to mere words is never an appropriate choice. But too often, the same people who engage in provocative and potentially offensive speech are only doing it so they can run to the authorities or the Twitter mob when their targets lash out. The restraint and good humor demonstrated by (Chris) Rock should be a role model for those who want to defend free expression from bullies on the right and the left — and from whichever side of the culture war ends up claiming (Will) Smith. From “What if Putin Didn’t Miscalculate?” by Bret Stephens, a right-leaning columnist, in the New York Times. The context, from the author: What if the conventional wisdom is wrong? What if the West is only playing into Vladimir Putin’s hands once again? The excerpt: Suppose for a moment that Putin never intended to conquer all of Ukraine: that, from the beginning, his real targets were the energy riches of Ukraine’s east, which contain Europe’s second-largest known reserves of natural gas (after Norway’s). Combine that with Russia’s previous territorial seizures in Crimea (which has huge offshore energy fields) and the eastern provinces of Luhansk and Donetsk (which contain part of an enormous shale-gas field), as well as Putin’s bid to control most or all of Ukraine’s coastline, and the shape of Putin’s ambitions become clear. He’s less interested in reuniting the Russian-speaking world than he is in securing Russia’s energy dominance. From “What Is A Woman, Judge Jackson?” by John Hirschauer in The American Conservative. The context, from the author: It is easy to mock Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson’s response, but from a progressive perspective, it is not an easy question to answer. The excerpt: (The question) forces the respondent to navigate several competing and contradictory left-wing claims about sex and identity. ... The fourth claim, quite at odds with the first three, is that a person with male reproductive organs and a Y chromosome who claims to be a woman is, in fact, a woman. Womanhood, according to this view, has no objective component, and can be claimed by any person who sincerely identifies as “a woman.” It is a self-referential definition. If Jackson answered (the) question correctly — ”a woman is an adult human female” — she would have run afoul of the fourth claim. If she answered incorrectly, she would run afoul of the first three claims. She also would have seemed like a lunatic.