In a move that goes against federal guidance, the Florida Department of Health on Wednesday released guidelines that advise no treatment of gender dysphoria for children and teenagers outside of counseling. The state’s guidance advises against gender-affirming treatment for people under the age of 18, including surgery as well as the prescription of hormone therapy or puberty blockers, which suppress the release of testosterone or estrogen. Florida’s updated guidance also said social transition — things like using a different name, pronouns or style of dress — should not be a treatment option. Gender dysphoria is the stress an individual feels when their gender identity does not match the sex they were assigned at birth. It was not immediately clear what effect the state’s guidance could have on physicians treating children and teens with gender dysphoria. The state’s move goes against federal guidance and guidance from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health. Guidance issued by the Office of Population Affairs, which falls under the Department of Health and Human Services, says research shows that gender-affirming care like social transitions and hormone therapy can improve the mental health and well-being of transgender and nonbinary children and adolescents. The Florida Department of Health on Wednesday put out a sheet disputing the federal Health and Human Services guidance and the studies they use. Surgeon General Joseph Ladapo said in a statement that the federal government’s guidance was “about injecting political ideology into the health of our children.” In a statement, Equality Florida said DeSantis’ administration was playing with “political propaganda” and that the guidance “demonizes life-saving, medically-necessary care, and asserts that the government, not parents, knows best when it comes to health care for our children.” Florida is not the first state to go after gender-affirming care for transgender children. For instance, in Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott ordered that facilities that give medical care to transgender children be investigated. On Monday, a group of doctors in Alabama filed a lawsuit against the state government seeking to overturn new legislation that bans gender-affirming care for children. The Alabama Vulnerable Child Compassion and Protection Act makes it a felony for doctors to carry out gender-affirming treatments like surgery, puberty blockers or hormone therapies. Violation of the law, which goes into effect on May 8, is punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment or a fine of up to $15,000. This is not the first time Gov. Ron DeSantis’ administration has expressed skepticism or denial of transgender individuals. Last year, DeSantis signed a bill banning transgender women from competing in women’s and girls’ school sports. Last month, he issued a proclamation declaring the runner-up in the NCAA 500-yard women’s freestyle event the winner after Lia Thomas, a transgender woman, won the event. This is a breaking news story and will be updated. Times reporter Christopher O’Donnell contributed to this report. 