COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Lightning surely would have preferred to ride into the Stanley Cup playoffs on the back of the winning style of hockey they’ve been playing over the past three weeks. But following a 5-2 loss to the Blue Jackets Thursday night in their penultimate game of the regular season, they left Nationwide Arena feeling pretty disappointed in their effort. “We just didn’t have our best (Thursday),” Lightning forward Pat Maroon said. “It’s unfortunate we played like that, so we’ve got to come out ready (Friday against the Islanders). We’ve got to be better.” How far the Lightning get in their chase for a third straight Cup will depend on how well they play in their own end. And that’s what made Thursday’s loss so frustrating, as they were sluggish throughout and allowed too many wide-open looks in front of their own net that led to Blue Jackets goals. “If you don’t give an effort, it doesn’t matter,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “You’re playing an NHL team, and we didn’t put forth a very good effort (Thursday). So it’s hard to defend. … It wasn’t in the game plan (Thursday). “When you play 82 (games), sometimes you’re going to get those. Game 81 was a lot like Game 1, so it’s unfortunate,” said Cooper, referring to a season-opening loss to the Penguins on the night the Lightning raised their latest championship banner into the rafters at Amalie Arena and then played an uninspired game. The Lightning entered Thursday’s game in control of their fate in terms of who they would face in the first round of the playoffs. With a win, they could have clinched third place in the Atlantic Division and a date with the Maple Leafs in a dream opening-round matchup. Instead, because of its loss in Columbus and Boston’s 5-0 win over Buffalo, Tampa Bay will enter Friday’s regular-season finale unsure of whether it will open the playoffs at Toronto or at Carolina (as the Eastern Conference’s first wild-card team). “They’ve got to play this season out,” Cooper said. “We’ve got some extremely important games coming up here. You want to be feeling a little bit better about your game and leave the feeling you have off (Thursday). ... We kind of tip-toed around the game a little bit, and we paid for it. So hopefully, we definitely won’t do that (Friday).” “Maybe it’s a little bit human nature, but you can’t let the guys off the hook. We’ve got to get a little more urgency to our game, there’s no doubt about that.” The Lightning (50-23-8, 108 points) lead the Bruins (51-25-5, 107 points) by one point entering Friday, with Boston finishing at Toronto. If the teams end the regular season with the same number of points, Boston would win the tiebreaker based on more regulation wins. “Just be engaged, just be focused, be ready,” Maroon said. “And just as an individual, going into the playoffs, you want to feel good about yourself. You want to feel like you’re doing the right things and you’re playing the right way. So just as an individual, just go out and try as hard as you can, work hard, work ethic, because that’s the intensity it’s going to be May 2, so we’ve got to find a way.” From puck drop, Columbus — which will finish well out of the playoff race and was without seven regulars  — came out with more energy. It peppered Tampa Bay goaltender Brian Elliott (30 saves on 34 shots) early, and the Lightning didn’t record their first shot on goal until more than nine minutes into the game. With just under four minutes left in the first period of a scoreless game, the Lightning left Jakub Voracek uncovered in the right circle, and rookie Kent Johnson found him for a one-timer that beat Elliott inside the near post. The recently surging Lightning power play which had operated at a 52.6-percent success rate over the previous six games,  also started off slow before Nikita Kucherov scored on the man-advantage midway through the second period to tie the game at 1.  Kucherov’s snap shot from the right circle gave him a goal in eight straight games, tying Brian Bradley for the longest streak in franchise history. But Columbus answered 32 seconds later, when Oliver Bjorkstrand got away from defenseman Ryan McDonagh behind the net and found Cole Sillinger wide open in front, putting the Blue Jackets back ahead. Jack Roslovic extended Columbus’ lead to 3-1 with a power-play goal just 15 seconds into the third period after Maroon was called for two penalties at the end of the second when his stick-jostling with goaltender Elvis Merzlikins led to a scrum in front of the Columbus net. Almost nine minutes later, Bjorkstrand chased down a loose puck in the neutral zone, charged into the Lightning zone and unloaded a wrister from the right circle that rode up defenseman Erik Cernak’s stick and past Elliott. Corey Perry’s 6-on-4 power-play goal briefly gave the Lightning hope with just over three minutes remaining, but Andrew Peeke restored the Blue Jackets’ three-goal lead with an empty-net goal just over a minute later. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.