Save for college now with Florida Prepaid Florida Prepaid College Plans As the state’s Chief Financial Officer, I am charged with many duties, including overseeing the health of accounting and investments for the third largest state. But as a father, husband and small business owner, I also have a personal passion for helping all families in our great state find financial stability and opportunity. Our state offers many unique financial benefits, from having no income tax to a lower cost of living relative to other large states like California and New York. One benefit that is especially important for families here is the ability to save affordably for college through Florida Prepaid College Plans. Florida Prepaid is the largest and longest-running prepaid program in the nation, and at a time when few states even offer such programs, ours is thriving and continues to be a national model. My wife and I have invested in plans for both of our children. The end of this month, April 28, brings National Teach Children to Save Day. This is a great opportunity for parents to send a powerful message to their children by showing them the importance of saving — and by involving them in the journey. This is certainly true when it comes to college savings. Studies show that children with even a small portion of their postsecondary expenses saved for are 2.5 times more likely to enroll in college and graduate. If I could assign “homework” to Floridians, it would be to go to myfloridaprepaid.com and research the different savings options before Open Enrollment ends April 30. Florida Prepaid is even offering families up to $500 in additional college savings, just for starting a Prepaid Plan. There is so much peace of mind in knowing this important expense of college is taken care of. Jimmy Patronis, Tallahassee The writer is the Chief Financial Officer of Florida. What they were elected to do Restrictions under the guise of freedom  | Editorial, April 6 For identical reasons, I mute my criticism of both our president and our governor (and likely presidential aspirant) — I glance at whom is in the respective teams’ on-deck circles. I also apply to politics Newton’s third law of motion (for every action, there is equal and opposite reaction). As we’ve read in your paper, many of the laws and actions which your editorials often one-sidedly decry, share the feature of being empty rhetoric. Let’s dismiss much of this as posturing, ask both teams if this is what they were elected to do and ask ourselves whether we are giving undue attention to statement politics. Most of what we care about is unattended. And the presumption that only government can solve problems is provably false. On social measures, particularly, some equal and opposite reactions are inevitable and likely wholesome in checking the extremes. Insidiously, we have gone from majority toleration to minority intolerance of majority values. Who believes that third parties should be free to talk to the very young about any form of sex or that this misbehavior is commonplace? Sexualizing the age of innocence is wrongful. Something is amiss if it takes opposing state and corporate statement politics to recognize that. That’s not freedom. It’s irresponsibility. Pat Byrne, Largo Jerks on an e-scooter Scooters both a delight and bane | April 3 The addition of e-scooters to Tampa Bay has been a very useful tool to keep a few more cars off of the road, but with every new idea there has to always be a catch. I’ll bet you it is the same bad apples causing most of the trouble, and my belief is too many of them have gotten this way by never being called out for being who they are, just a bunch of selfish jerks. How more people have not been hit by cars downtown after darting into traffic is a miracle. I just hope that they don’t ruin it for the whole bunch. James Jones, Tampa Find common ground on immigration Is it racist to help Ukraine? | Column, April 4 We have a long history of receiving immigrants subject to government requirements and also opening borders in emergencies for Vietnamese, Afghans and now Ukrainians. But the essence of immigration law rests on government policy and practices. The southern border is a continuing sore point with Central American and Mexican issues unresolved. Yet immigration does undergird our economy both at the high end (highly educated migrants) and low end (seasonal workers). What is disturbing and divisive are the several years and predictions of huge surges of migrants, who are really only seeking economic security and opportunity. Neither Republicans nor Democrats have done a satisfactory job of providing publicly supported laws. That is exactly what is needed: clear, fair and publicly supported laws that end the virulent divisions on the subject. James R. Gillespie, St. Petersburg Colleges too selective The Class of 2022 Members of the high school Class of 2022 have recently began to receive their college acceptance notifications. Coming off a life-changing pandemic, this group of seniors probably got the worst of it. The local high school is hosting its first prom since 2019, so these seniors will finally get to experience the best parts of high school, after many were devastated by this year’s college acceptances. In order to stay selective and appear prestigious, many colleges keep admission rates very low. When students with above 4.0 GPAs get rejected from state schools, this sets an unattainable and unrealistic standard of achievement for all students across the country. A new focus within public schools is mental health. While that’s good, I hope to see colleges revisiting the pressure they are placing upon students and changing the incredibly competitive atmosphere of admissions. Kellyann Popp, Madeira Beach