DALLAS — With nine games remaining in the regular season, the Lightning, Maple Leafs and Bruins are jockeying for playoff positioning. The Lightning can clinch a postseason berth as soon as Thursday, and this month has included contests against fellow contenders that had an unmistakable playoff feel — hard-checking, closely-contested, low-scoring games. “It’s kind of fun playing down the stretch these games,” Lightning forward Pat Maroon said after Tuesday’s 1-0 loss in Dallas. “They’re fighting to get in the playoffs, and we’re fighting to clinch in the playoffs. We’re playing playoff teams on this stretch.” Tampa Bay’s schedule gets easier over the final stretch. Just three of its remaining games are against playoff teams, and only one — April 21 vs. Toronto — will impact the race directly. With the first-place Panthers (52-15-6, 110 points) well ahead of the pack, here’s a look at the road ahead for the Lightning, Maple Leafs and Bruins and the factors that could come into play in the race for seeding. Lightning (third in Atlantic, 44-21-8, 96 points) Remaining schedule: Six home, three away Games against teams currently in playoff positions (3): April 21 vs. Toronto, April 23 vs. Nashville, April 24 at Florida Who’s hot: Andrei Vasilevskiy has allowed just three goals (two in regulation) over his past two starts, compiling a .954 save percentage. Backup Brian Elliott recorded a 28-save shutout in his last outing. Who’s not: Alex Killorn has no points in his past five games. Despite ending his goal drought on Sunday, Ondrej Palat has just five points over his past 21 games. Who’s hurt: With defenseman Ryan McDonagh’s return, the Lightning are as healthy as they’ve been all season. Maple Leafs (second in Atlantic, 47-20-6, 100 points) Remaining schedule: Five home, four away Games against teams currently in playoff positions (5): Thursday vs. Washington, April 21 at Lightning, April 23 at Florida, April 24 at Washington, April 29 vs. Boston Who’s hot: There’s not a hotter player in hockey right now than center Auston Matthews, who has 21 goals and 10 assists in his last 17 games. Forward Mitch Marner isn’t far behind with eight goals and 20 assists in his past 14. Who’s not: Jason Spezza has no points in his last four games. Who’s hurt: Toronto has struggled to keep its goaltenders healthy, and Petr Mrazek is currently on injured reserve. Starter Jack Campbell returned earlier this month from a rib injury that kept him out for more than three weeks. Bruins (fourth in Atlantic, 45-23-5, 95 points) Remaining schedule: Five home, four away Games against teams currently in playoff positions (6): Saturday vs Pittsburgh, Tuesday at St. Louis, April 21 at Pittsburgh, April 23 vs. NY Rangers, April 26 vs Florida, April 29 vs. Toronto Who’s hot: Defenseman Charlie McAvoy is playing at a plus-10 over his past nine games and has 12 assists over that stretch. Center Patrice Bergeron has four points over his past four games. Who’s not: Defenseman Mike Reilly is minus-4 with no points over his last six games. Forward Craig Smith is also minus-4 over his last four. Who’s hurt: The Bruins are probably the most banged-up of the three teams. Leading goal-scorer David Pastrnak has missed the past four games with an injury, and the Boston power play has struggled without its top threat, going 0-for-13. Injuries to Hampus Lindholm and Matt Grzelcyk leave Boston thin on left-shot defensemen. If season ended today (it ends May 1) A look at what would be the first-round matchups in the Eastern Conference entering Wednesday’s games: Atlantic 1 and best East record Panthers vs. wild card 2 Capitals Metropolitan 1 and second-best East record Hurricanes vs. wild card 1 Bruins Atlantic 2 Maple Leafs vs. Atlantic 3 Lightning Metropolitan 2 Rangers vs. Metropolitan 3 Penguins Standings tiebreaks The end-of-season tiebreaks that set playoff positions if teams are tied in points and how the Lightning, Maple Leafs and Bruins stand on them as of Wednesday: 1. Regulation wins (Leafs 40, Bruins 35, Lightning 33) 2. Regulation and overtime wins (Leafs 45, Bruins 43, Lightning 42) 3. Total wins (Leafs 47, Bruins 45, Lightning 44) • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.