ST. PETERSBURG — Division rival in town. Decent crowd in the bleachers. And now the bases are loaded with one out in the ninth inning and the Rays trailing by one run. Brandon Lowe at the plate, Wander Franco on deck. You’ll take that, right? Maybe even feel cocky about it. Lowe has finished in the top 10 of the American League MVP voting the past two seasons, and Franco’s legend is growing by the day. Eight pitches later, the game was over. And it didn’t go Tampa Bay’s way. The Red Sox held off the Rays 4-3 before an announced crowd of 16,902 at Tropicana Field on Friday night after Lowe struck out looking and Franco’s hard grounder was gobbled up by second baseman Trevor Story. “We were able to get who we wanted up to the plate,” catcher Mike Zunino said. “For all the stuff that (Franco’s) done for us so far this year, he still puts a great at-bat together, a good swing on a ball and just little unlucky.” Up to that point, Franco had put on an impressive show against Boston. A 389-foot home run with an exit velocity of 109.7 mph in his first at-bat. A hard grounder at 106 mph that was misplayed in the third inning. And then a 363-foot homer with an exit velocity of 112.4 mph in his third at-bat that was followed by a spectacular running catch by the shortstop of a pop fly down the leftfield line. He flied out with the tying run on second in the seventh, before the 101 mph grounder that Story fielded in the grass in short rightfield. “I made good contact,” Franco said, via interpreter Manny Navarro. “I was hoping it would get through, but it didn’t. It was the story of the night for the Rays, who repeatedly hit the ball hard only to have a Red Sox fielder in great position to make the play. Story made several sliding and diving catches, and shortstop Xander Bogaerts had a leaping catch of a Yandy Diaz liner with two on and two out in the third. “They made some nice plays at like really big times for them where we had chance to get a run up there or multiple runs,” manager Kevin Cash said. “I mean, Yandy’s ball is probably a gapper that scores two. So Bogaerts made some nice plays.” Starting pitcher Corey Kluber struggled from the first inning — the 11 hits he gave up were the most he had yielded in a game in seven years — but managed to stay on the mound for five innings and exited with the Rays trailing only 4-2. The Red Sox, meanwhile, got another solid performance out of former Ray Michael Wacha. After struggling to put decent starts together in Tampa Bay last season, Wacha has a 1.88 ERA in his first three Boston starts. He didn’t dominate the Rays — he got only four swing-and-misses in 82 pitches — but kept the Rays from stringing together hits. “He just mixes his pitches really well,” Cash said. “We certainly know he’s a good pitcher.” The Rays had a chance in the ninth after Jake Diekman issued leadoff walks to pinch-hitter Taylor Walls and Manuel Margot. Pinch-hitter Harold Ramirez hit a hot shot that Story converted into a force play at second, then Zunino worked a walk after falling behind 0-2. Lowe, who drove in the third run with a ground ball in the seventh, got to 2-2 before looking at a breaking pitch that caught the inside corner. The Red Sox then brought in Matt Barnes to face Franco. “I thought we had a chance, everybody that came up there with guys on base,” Cash said. “We had good at-bats against them. B-Lowe hung in there, but he threw what looked like a front-door breaking ball that caught the edge. Felt good with all those guys, we just came up short.” John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.