Most medical school graduations include a recitation of the Hippocratic Oath: “First, do no harm.” In medical ethics teachings, we also talk about beneficence (doing good for the patient), autonomy (allowing the patient to make the best choices) and justice (accessible care for all). Unfortunately, the current medical delivery system profoundly challenges these concepts. How can doctors treat sick patients to the best of their ability when health coverage is not affordable or accessible? I want nothing more than to follow this oath, but societal conditions are causing doctors to break it. Floridians are sick and tired of a broken health care system riddled with systemic issues and injustices. A recent survey shows that more than 4 in 10 Floridians sacrifice health care because of costs. These sacrifices include avoiding oral health procedures (25 percent), delaying seeing a doctor (21 percent), skipping a recommended test or treatment (17 percent), and avoiding going to a doctor altogether (17 percent). And those that did go to a doctor to seek treatment? More than four in 10 Floridians (43 percent) have faced financial hardship due to medical bills. This includes being contacted by a collection agency (18 percent), using up all their savings (16 percent), being unable to pay for basic necessities (14 percent) and having to borrow money or take out a loan to pay off medical debt (14 percent). Doctors and patients are standing up and fighting. Where you live shouldn’t make it harder to get care, your ZIP code shouldn’t determine your health. Floridians worry about rising costs for those with chronic health issues, people with low incomes and uninsured people. Nearly half of Floridians have sacrificed needed health care due to costs. Today, I join my fellow doctors, small business owners, and health care advocates to forge a coalition called For Florida’s Health. Currently, too many Florida residents are either without health insurance or with health plans that carry incredibly high deductibles, which often equates to not having coverage at all for fear of triggering expenses that can’t be repaid. Nearly 800,000 Floridians have no health insurance because the premiums are too high. Families earning as little as $7,000 a year make too much to qualify for Medicaid but too little for tax credits in the health care marketplace. Adults without children don’t qualify for Medicaid, no matter how little they make. For some Floridians, the cost of health insurance could be the same as their yearly salary. The uninsured rate for low-income Floridians in rural areas is almost 40 percent. More than 20,000 Floridians with developmental and intellectual disabilities are on a waiting list for services — Floridians of color experience higher rates of illness and death from several health conditions. COVID made the invisible visible, laid inequities bare and showed we are all connected. We are living in a time of polarization, but we can change course and act with compassion. A line from the Oath reads: I will prevent disease whenever I can, for prevention is preferable to cure. For Florida’s Health is calling for every elected leader to support practical solutions to ensure that every single Floridian across all 67 counties can get the health coverage they need. We urge our elected leaders to put aside their differences and work together to help Floridians gain quality coverage. No one should have to choose between paying rent or putting food on the table and seeing a doctor. Let’s create a path of healing, literally and figuratively, for future generations of Floridians who will call the Sunshine State home. Brent Schillinger is a Delray Beach physician, past president of the Palm Beach County Medical Society and vice-chair of the Florida Policy Institute.