Wind gusts of over 40 miles per hour were recorded Saturday afternoon from Pinellas County northward to Levy County ahead of possible severe storms. Lightning also posed a threat. Two people were struck in the parking lot of Raymond James Stadium on Saturday after leaving a New York Yankees spring training game at George M. Steinbrenner Field, according to Tampa police. Both were reported to be in stable condition, police said. Raymond James serves as a parking lot for Steinbrenner Field, where the Yankees were playing the Atlanta Braves in a spring training game. The Tampa Bay area remains at a risk for severe thunderstorms Saturday. Wind gusts of over 40 miles per hour were recorded from Pinellas County northward. Radar estimates show 2 to 3 inches in some areas from Pasco County through Citrus County, including Sumter County. There is a chance of moderate-sized hail of 1 to 2 inches, the size of Ping Pong balls, until 8 or 9 p.m. Meteorologist Rodney Wynn of the National Weather Service in Ruskin said a few wind reports in Pinellas County registered in the 40 miles per hour range. Hernando County registered 41 mph gusts, Citrus County registered 47 and 48 mph winds and Levy County registered 43 mph winds. Wynn said he has not received any damage or storm reports. He said radar estimates show 2 to 3 inches in some areas from Pasco County through Citrus County, including Sumter County. The Tampa Bay area southward through Charlotte Harbor is in a marginal risk for severe thunderstorms. There is a chance of gusty winds and moderate-sized hail of 1 to 2 inches, the size of Ping Pong balls, until 8 or 9 p.m. Saturday, Wynn said. “We’re kind of in a break right now, but there’s still some stronger storms well out over the gulf waters that will move over to the coast in the evening hours,” he said. National Weather Service meteorologist John McMichael said earlier that Saturday’s stormy weather would be attributable to a stationary front sitting across the Florida peninsula meeting an upper level of disturbance approaching from the west. That combination with ample moisture and instability could produce widespread showers and thunderstorms. He said there’s better news for the Tampa Bay area on Sunday, though there’s still a chance for showers and storms. There will be a marginal risk of severe storms across southwest Florida.