ST. PETERSBURG — All the traditional signs of opening day were in place at Tropicana Field on Friday. The bunting was hung, the seats were full and optimism, even about a new Tampa Bay-area stadium, was in the air. Though it took a while, the Rays eventually turned it into the anticipated party, with a 2-1 win over the Orioles. An eighth-inning parade of clutch at-bats led to pinch-hitter Francisco Mejia delivering the go ahead run on a sac fly, and J.P. Feyereisen and Brooks Raley teamed for the final three outs to cap a strong six-man bullpen effort after a solid start by Shane McClanahan. “We took it down to the wire, that’s for sure,” relieved Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “It did not feel like a spring training game. I guess that’s a good thing.” The Rays had taken a 1-0 lead in the third when they loaded the bases with one out, but got only one, on a sac fly by Brandon Lowe. The O’s, who lost 18 of 19 games to the Rays last year, tied it in the sixth when Anthony Santander homered on a Matt Wisler slider that didn’t slide. With a sellout crowd of 25,025 (capacity with the upper deck closed) and the new Trop sound system blaring, the Rays rallied, as they did in many similarly tight games last year, with Cash making the right moves and just about the whole team contributing. “That’s us,” Cash said. “We’re going to utilize the roster. We’re going to utilize the entire pitching staff. They all pitch in whatever role is asked. “The approach, the buy-in that we get, the support from all of them — they get pinch-hit for one night, next night they’re the guy pinch-hitting for that person. So it goes both ways, but just (an) incredible group of guys that understand we’re doing everything we can to win tonight.” Wander Franco, who had three hits in his first game as a 21-year-old, got them started with a scorching single, the 109.7-mph exit velocity making it the hardest hit ball of his young career. “That was something that we needed,” he said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Lefty Ji-Man Choi pinch-hit for Harold Ramirez, with the O’s changing right-handers to Jorge Lopez. Choi battled back from a 1-2 count and through eight pitches overall - plus waiting out three pickoff attempts — for a walk. McClanahan was getting treatment on the trainer’s table but couldn’t stop watching. “That at-bat was probably the best at-bat of the entire game,” he said. “It seemed like it was a 15-minute at-bat. … I kept looking up, I’m like, ‘Oh, man, Ji-Man’s still up.’” Not only that, Cash said, but “it kind of set the tone and really flipped the leverage for us in that inning.” Randy Arozarena was next, bouncing a ball toward third and quickly discarding the shackles of spring training to bust it down the line for an infield single that loaded the bases. “First game of the year, and the guy hustled his butt off to get that,” McClanahan said. “That was a great play by him.” Said Cash: “It’s so refreshing to know that these guys, when they need to turn it on, they know how to turn it on and play the game the right way.” A Brandon Lowe grounder forced Franco out at home, then Cash made another correct call, sitting down Mike Zunino for Mejia, a switch-hitter who is more likely to make contact and put the ball in play. Plus, he has shown a bit of that clutch factor, with four go-ahead hits in the ninth or later last season. Mejia took a strike, then delivered a fly to left. “On this team you know you’ve got to be ready at any time,” Mejia said, via Navarro. “Just try to get a good pitch to get the ball in the air to drive him in.” In totality, a single, a walk, an infield single and a sac fly added up to an opening day win that sent just about everyone home happy — and, the Rays hope, likely to come back. “That’s the way you’re supposed to play ball,” Franco said. “Play aggressive and find a way to help the team.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.