I’ll vote my pocketbook Unfinished business: Insurance, condos | March 22 As a conservative Republican, here is my warning to our conservative Republican state leaders. If they want to continue enjoying their election successes then they had better call a special session to address the problem of the skyrocketing homeowners’ insurance premiums. They should call the special session now and produce concrete, verifiable results immediately. If not, when the candidates from the other party see the cavalier disregard that the Florida Republicans have for the financial sledgehammer that is whacking homeowners, the Democrats are going to have a serious weapon that they will use this November. All politics is local. It gets personal when food money goes to insurance premiums. Think not? Disregard this problem and see you at the ballot box. Gary West, St. Petersburg Not my prayers Tampa Christian school loses its legal battle prayer | April 5 I am in support of U.S. District Judge Charlene Edwards Honeywell’s ruling that use of the public-address system at a championship football game to offer prayer is not allowed. My freedom of religion says I should not be forced to listen to the prayers of others. Prayers to a God not of my choice, said aloud when my faith requires quiet prayer, is a violation of my rights in a government-sponsored event (the governing body of the football league is considered a state agent). The insistence of Christians that theirs is the religion and entitled to special treatment is getting beyond annoying. If this is allowed, then at every public event (anytime public spaces are used) and Christians demand public prayer, I think all religions must be offered the opportunity to invoke public prayer as well, and efforts made to find a speaker to offer the additional prayers must be shown. Given the number of unique religions in this country, one could expect adding a good hour or two or three to every event. Wonder how long that would stand? Cathy R. Haggerty, Clearwater Finding acceptance ‘Don’t say gay’ vs. ‘parental rights’ | PolitiFact, April 1 I believe that the “don’t say gay” law is extremely oppressive. Members of the LGBTQ+ community deserve to be heard, even in environments such as the classroom. For many LGBTQ+ students, school may be the only place where they find acceptance. R.C. O’Brien, Seminole