MONTCLAIR, N.J. — The Rowdies squandered constant scoring opportunities Saturday and needed to convert one late to salvage a 1-1 draw against New York. Leo Fernandes, who grew up in New York and had a large rooting section, entered as a substitute and tied the score with his rebound goal of a Conner Antley shot in the 85th minute. Tampa Bay was awarded a penalty at the 90th minute, only to have the call waved off after the head referee conferred with the linesperson. “I’ve never seen someone that’s 35 yards away overrule someone that’s 10 yards away. That’s a first,” said a miffed Rowdies coach Neill Collins. Collins said he thought his squad was denied two penalty opportunities on handballs that were not called in Wednesday’s 2-1 U.S. Open Cup loss at Orlando. On Saturday, another possible handball in the 75th minute was not called in the penalty box. In the 90th minute, Junior Etou got ahead of the defense and had two steps on New York’s Lamine Conte, who attempted to tackle the ball away and sent Etou to the turf. The referee immediately signaled for a penalty and after the Red Bulls complained, sought counsel from his assistant. Replays suggested that Conte contacted the ball cleanly before running into Etou. “We’re missing the finishing touches, but there were two penalties that we should have that we didn’t get. It breaks my heart for the team because they’re giving so much,” Collins said. Top scoring threats Sebastian Guenzatti, Steevan Dos Santos and Fernandes were not in the starting lineup against a young Red Bulls squad that came in 1-5 with no goals at home. But late in a first half that had seen Tampa Bay (3-1-4, 13 points) outshoot New York 7-2, the hosts drew a foul just outside the penalty box. Jeremy Rafanello was able to curl the shot inside the right post past s diving Raiko Arozarena. It was the third straight start in goal for Arozarena and the third straight game that Jordan Scarlett did not start defensively. However, Scarlett entered, along with Fernandes and Lucky Mkosana, as 70th-minute subs, which sparked the Rowdies offense. Antley moved up to right wing and on a long pass by Lewis Hilton broke in on goal. Even though the first shot was saved, Fernandes was there for the rebound. Jake La Cava, with the Rowdies while on loan from the New York franchise, had a golden opportunity to give Tampa Bay the lead in the 88th minute on a pass from Mkosana. La Cav was unmarked from 10 yards out but shanked the shot. The Rowdies’ Kyle Greig, getting his second straight start, just missed on a similarly frustrating moment early in the second half on a stellar low cross from Dayonn Harris. It was the fourth draw in eight matches for the Rowdies, who outshot New York 16-9. “You can probably tell, I’m so, so frustrated right now because I think everything’s going against us. The schedule has been terrible. We’re not getting any breaks in terms of the calls. We’re definitely against it right now, but that’s going to bring the best out in us,” Collins said.