TAMPA — Like most morning skates, Brian Elliott is one of the last players off the ice. The first team bus back to the hotel on a recent road trip is already long gone when the Lightning goaltender is done, leaving beads of sweat trailing behind him from his saturated practice jersey. As Andrei Vasilevskiy’s backup, Elliott hasn’t played much — just 14 of the Lightning’s first 73 games — but the 37-year-old still sees every day on the ice as an opportunity. During morning skates, hours before the arena fills with fans and on practice days are when Elliott puts in most of his work. In his 15th NHL season, he remains hungry to improve his game daily.  With the regular season winding down, the Lightning expect to count on Elliott more while giving Vasilevskiy, who has played every one of Tampa Bay’s 48 playoff games the past two postseasons, some rest. Lightning coach Jon Cooper estimated that Elliott will play at least four of the Lightning’s final nine games, so Elliott will have a say in where the team slots in the playoff seedings. Going by his performance so far — Elliott owns an 8-3-3 record and his .918 save percentage is his best since an All-Star season in St. Louis in 2015-16 — the Lightning are in good hands down the stretch. “Every start’s an opportunity,” Elliott said. “So you just want to keep getting those wins, keep creeping up the standings so that you know you’re in a good spot when the playoffs come. For (Vasilevskiy), he’s played a lot of hockey in the last two years, more than any other goalie, so if I can come in and spot him and make sure he’s ready to go for the big show, then that’s my job. ... “I feel like I approach every game that I get right now as a playoff game.” Better with age Among all the shiny, sleek cars in the Lightning team parking lot, Elliott’s trusty 2012 Toyota Tundra truck stands out. It has its share of dings and plenty of mileage after a decade of driving it — Elliott’s close friend, Mike Valley, estimates about 170,000 miles — and it’s a little messy in the back from hauling around three kids. “I told him the other day when we were having dinner, ‘That truck is like you, it’s just old and reliable,’” said Valley, a former goaltending coach with the Stars who became friends with Elliott during Elliott’s college days at the University of Wisconsin. “...But that captures who he is, he’s a guy that puts on his work boots, goes to the rink, doesn’t pretend he’s something he’s not, works hard, is there for his teammates and just gets the job done. “That’s who he is. And players see that, and when they see that, of course they want to play for him.” The Lightning are Elliott’s sixth team in a  career in which he’s had to prove himself often. Ottawa drafted him in the ninth round back in 2003 (the draft only has seven rounds now). His career with the Senators was streaky, and after a trade to Colorado near the end of the 2010-11 season didn’t work out well (a 3.83 goals against average in 12 games), he had to prove his worth again. That’s what Elliott did, signing a two-way contract with the Blues and beating out eventual Lightning star Ben Bishop for a roster spot. He teamed with Jaroslav Halak to become the league’s best goaltending tandem, winning the Jennings Trophy and earning the first of two All-Star selections while eventually garnering an extension. During the stops that followed in Calgary and Philadelphia, he was a starter and a backup. Elliott had interest from several teams in the offseason and could have seen more playing time elsewhere, but he couldn’t deny the defending back-to-back  Stanley Cup champs when they came calling. “We know what have in Vasy; he’s an unbelievable goalie,” defenseman Ryan McDonagh said. “But you can throw (Elliott) out there, too, and he’s going to give you a great chance to win. He’s got a great attitude and that’s the reason he’s played this long in the league and is why teams continue to want him to utilize him.” Elliott says the situation has benefitted him. After averaging 33 starts the past 10 seasons, he’ll likely get just more than half of that this season. But his body is feeling better than it has in years, and the added practice time has allowed him to hone in on the finer details of his game with goaltending coach Frantz Jean. “The way my body felt this year is great,” Elliott said. “So I feel like I can push myself a little bit more and, knock on wood, hopefully that continues and I still feel like I’ve got a lot of hockey left and it’s fun when you can work hard and you’re not worried about breaking down or not having enough in the tank when your time comes.” Find the lighter moments Goalies can be tightly wound, and while Elliott can be intense at times, he’s always been big on keeping things loose. One summer, he was training in Madison with Valley, former NHL goaltender Al Montoya and a young junior level goalie named Jack Campbell. After one workout, the four went on a boat and docked at a local lunch spot. When Campbell — now the starting goaltender for the Maple Leafs — went to the restroom, Elliott devised a fake dine-and-dash scheme, settling the tab with the waitress while Campbell was gone, then proposing they skip the check when Campbell returned. “Should we do what we always did in college, dine and dash?” Elliott asked the group when Campbell returned. “He’s like, ‘Let’s do it,’” Valley remembered. “Jack’s like looking at us like, ‘You guys are crazy. We can’t do that.’ The waitress comes out, we ask for the check, so she’s playing into it. So Ells says, ‘OK, let’s go.’ And we run down as fast as we can and jump on the boat and Ells guns it. Poor Jack made it only halfway down the stairs. We circle back to get him and were like, ‘Where’s Jack?’ He had gone up and paid the waitress again, another $200. “That’s just the way Ells is,” Valley added. “We’re always laughing, always having fun. Always trying something and including everybody. He’s just a good dude.” Elliott has learned over the years that the more you’re able to have fun and engage your teammates, the harder they’ll play for you. “The big thing for a goalie is to get guys to play for you,” Elliott said. “If they like you and you’re a good person, then they want to play harder for you. Sometimes you need the guys to play really hard for you. So you’ve got to be really nice. I think it’s a part of the game that not a lot of people talk about ... (but as a goalie) it’s a big thing..” Tampa Bay has earned points in 11 of Elliott’s 14 starts, and he is 5-1-1 in his last seven, most recently a 28-save shutout win last Sunday over Buffalo. Elliott has been as far as the conference final with the Blues in 2015-16. This is his best chance at getting a Stanley Cup ring since then. While Elliott becomes a free agent at the end of the season, he believes he still has at least two years left in him and would love to return to Tampa Bay. “It’s been one of the most fun experiences throughout,” he said. “I don’t know if that’s just timing or how I feel and the confidence that I feel being in the league for so long that maybe it’s just natural to feel that way. But ...  it’s been great. So hopefully we keep this run going. I used to say I hated that (teammate Pat Maroon) has won three in a row, but now I can’t wait for him to win four.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.