TAMPA — When he’s at his best, Nikita Kucherov can bring out the most in his teammates. As the Lightning ramp up for the postseason, the most promising sign of another deep run is that Kucherov has found his best play of the season. Kucherov had a goal and two assists in a 6-2 win over the Predators on Saturday night at Amalie Arena, giving him 22 points over his past 13 games, including six multipoint games. “He just makes other people better,” coach Jon Cooper said. “And usually when he’s rolling and he’s on his game, you can put anybody there and he’s going to help drive lines. Hopefully, he can keep this going when we get to the fun part (of the season).” With the win, the Lightning (48-22-8, 104 points) solidified their third-place spot in the Atlantic Division, maintaining a three-point lead over the Bruins. Boston beat the Rangers 3-1 earlier Saturday. Boston and Tampa Bay each has four games left in the regular season. The Lightning are five points back of the second-place Maple Leafs, who lost to Florida in overtime Saturday, with a game in hand. The Lightning have won four of their last five games. They’ve outscored their opponents 14-3 over their past two and have not allowed an even-strength goal over the past two games. Kucherov has given the Lightning power play a boost with three goals over the past three games, including a score Saturday that gave Tampa Bay a 3-1 lead with 19.5 seconds left in the first period. “It’s always nice to score a lot of goals, but I think the bigger thing is giving up one last game and two (Saturday). If we keep playing like that, it will be good,” said forward Anthony Cirelli, who had a first-period goal. The Lightning built on their most-lopsided win of the season, an 8-1 trouncing Thursday of a Toronto team that was without top scorer Auston Matthews and starting goaltender Jack Campbell, with another well-rounded performance against a Nashville team fighting for one of the final playoff spots in the Western Conference. The Predators struggled to anticipate what Kucherov could do with the puck on his stick. His quick cross-ice pass from below the goal line to Steven Stamkos on a first-period power play spun Nashville’s heads around and freed Victor Hedman for a 100.4 mph shot from the center point. Hedman’s shot beat goalie Juuse Saros gloveside to put Tampa Bay ahead 1:51 into the game. After Cirelli scored with 9:01 left in the first, Predators defenseman Roman Josi answered on a power play to make it 2-1 with 2:42 left. A little more than two minutes later, Kucherov took the puck off a faceoff win in the offensive zone and skated from the top of the right circle to the left. He surprised the Predators with a wrist shot that found the back of the net through traffic. Nashville closed the gap to one again on Alexandre Carrier’s power-play goal midway through the second period, but the Lightning answered when Kucherov carried the puck into the slot and made a no-look pass to Stamkos, who rifled a one-timer from the bottom of the left circle for a 4-2 lead. “We don’t even exactly know what (Kucherov is) going to do with (the puck), but we know what spots to be in and he’ll find us,” Hedman said. “Or he’ll just take the puck and do it himself, like he did in the first period. It’s fun to watch, and the power play has been great as of late.” Stamkos, who became the Lightning’s all-time points leader Thursday, also had two assists to improve his total to 959. The Predators had just four shots on goal in the third period and just one in the final 15:08. Backup goaltender Brian Elliott made 19 saves on the night, improving to 8-1-1 in his last 10 games. Tampa Bay was willing to scrap with Nashville, which entered Saturday with the most fighting penalties in the league, and its physicality was tested. Defenseman Jan Rutta dropped his gloves in the third period, throwing a bunch of overhead right-hand punches at Predators forward Nick Cousins. It was Rutta’s first fight in his five-year NHL career, according to hockeyfights.com. Brayden Point returned after missing one game with a lower-body injury and had an assist. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.