With just over six months to go until November’s gubernatorial contest, new survey results suggest that Gov. Ron DeSantis is well-positioned as he seeks reelection, particularly as Floridians shift their focus away from COVID-19 and on to economic issues. A summer surge in COVID-19 cases could still spell trouble for the governor, but even that may not be enough to block his path to a second term. A recent survey asked a representative sample of 600 Floridians to share their thoughts about the governor’s job performance, the state’s handling of the pandemic and the most important issues facing Florida today. The results suggest that jobs and the economy are by far the governor’s greatest strength with voters, and that’s precisely where most Floridians are turning their attention in 2022. When we asked Floridians in July of 2021 what the most important issue facing the state was, nearly a third (30 percent) said the pandemic. In contrast, at the time, only 23 percent said jobs and/or the economy. Today those numbers have swung dramatically. In the most recent survey — conducted March 31 through April 12 — just over a third (34 percent) said that jobs and the economy were their top concerns. Comparatively, only 9 percent of respondents identified COVID-19 as the state’s top challenge. Politically speaking, this significant shift in focus is good news for the DeSantis campaign. When asked about the governor’s job performance in six key areas, respondents gave him the highest marks when it came to jobs and the economy, with 56 percent expressing approval. By comparison, only 35 percent disapproved of the governor’s performance in this area, while 9 percent were “unsure.” The governor received plurality support in most areas, including his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic (50 percent) and conservation/the environment (49 percent). His approval ratings were slightly upside down when it came to climate change (42 percent approve vs. 44 percent disapprove) and unifying Floridians (45 percent approve vs. 46 percent disapprove), though notably, climate change was only prioritized as the state’s most important issue by 6 percent of respondents. A summer surge in COVID-19 cases could certainly shift the focus of voters away from economic concerns and back to the ongoing pandemic, but even this appears unlikely to derail the governor’s reelection bid. As noted above, 50 percent of respondents approved of DeSantis’ handling of the pandemic, while 45 percent disapproved. Furthermore, when asked about the state’s overall response to COVID-19, 60 percent said that they were either “very” or “somewhat satisfied.” A two thirds majority also said that Florida has done at least as well (32 percent) or even better (36 percent) than other states in responding to the pandemic. These numbers suggest that even in the face of a COVID-19 surge, most Florida voters would likely be reluctant to support a significant deviation from the state’s previous policy stance. While the governor’s opponents have sought to gain ground by opposing his more controversial social policy positions, it’s notable that the survey results followed the passage of Florida’s widely debated “Parental Rights in Education” act (HB 1557), as well as the “Individual Freedom” measure (HB7). The governor’s support of these measures was widely known at the time, suggesting that they are likely baked in to the survey responses. Notably, the survey results predated the recent revocation of Disney’s special tax status by the state Legislature, and it remains to be seen whether the governor’s support for this measure will have any impact on his popularity among Florida voters. However, DeSantis has subsequently set fundraising records based in part on his chastisement of Disney over its response to HB 1557 — which critics call the “don’t say gay” bill — and that suggests at the very least that his base support will not dramatically change following the decision. Collectively, the data suggest that DeSantis is well-positioned with voters where it matters most, and barring any dramatic surprises, it’s unlikely that Democratic challengers will be able to craft an effective narrative that undermines the governor’s standing with Florida voters. Of course, in politics it’s never over until it’s over, but it appears for now that the DeSantis campaign has plenty of reasons for optimism. Stephen Neely is an associate professor at the University of South Florida’s School of Public Affairs. The USF study was conducted as an online survey using Prodege MR, a leading market research provider. The survey referenced in this article was conducted between March 31 and April 12. A representative sample of 600 adult Floridians was collected via a stratified, quota sampling method, with balanced quotas (by region of the state) for age, gender, race, ethnicity, education, and political affiliation. The results are reported with a 95 percent confidence level and a margin of error +/- 4.