BRANDON — A Hillsborough deputy shot a woman Monday afternoon as she drove toward her ex-boyfriend with a handgun in her vehicle and an intent to kill him, according to Hillsborough Sheriff Chad Chronister. Terrell Green, 39, was transported to Tampa General Hospital with injuries that are not life-threatening, the Sheriff’s Office said, and she was the only person wounded in the incident. Chronister says she faces charges of aggravated assault with a firearm and false imprisonment. The sheriff said the incident started when after Green became “irate” after going through her ex-boyfriend’s cellphone while he showered at her home in the Cypress Trace apartment complex on Kings Avenue. Green confronted the man as he was putting on clothes just before noon, Chronister said. She pointed a handgun at him and threatened to kill him. Chronister says the man escaped outside, but Green continued to chase him around the apartment complex until he escaped again — this time by scaling a 7-foot wrought iron fence. The man, who was not identified by deputies, sprinted to the nearby Heaven Sent Daycare Center. He banged on the door and begged for a phone to call 911. “During that 911 call, we could tell in what type of duress he really was,” Chronister said. “He was out of breath because our victim was literally running for his life.” Two deputies responded to the daycare and spoke to the man in the parking lot. Meanwhile, Green got into her vehicle and “continued her hunt,” Chronister said, and when she saw her ex-boyfriend she drove toward him despite deputies signaling her to stop. The situation escalated when Deputy Michael Castelli spotted a black semi-automatic handgun in Green’s vehicle and shouted “gun, gun, gun,” the sheriff said during a news conference Monday afternoon, and his warning prompted the second deputy, Kristina Gautier, to tell Green’s ex-boyfriend and the daycare’s owner to take cover. Gautier then fired one shot into Green’s vehicle, which struck her upper body. Chronister said Gautier “was forced” to fire her service weapon. Green, who never fired a shot, was then taken to the hospital with a torso injury. “She was there today in this parking lot to finish the job she started,” Chronister said. The sheriff says neither Gautier nor Castelli, both of whom have been with the Sheriff’s Office since 2019, had used deadly force before Monday. Gautier has been placed on paid administrative leave as the investigation continues, he said. The investigation of the shooting is being taken over by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, Chronister said.