TAMPA — The Lightning had a near-perfect recipe for winning Thursday against the Maple Leafs. For the first time in a while, Tampa Bay played a complete game from start to finish — limiting Toronto’s scoring opportunities in an 8-1 victory — and reached significant milestones in the process. Steven Stamkos surpassed Marty St. Louis as the franchise’s all-time points leader (956), while Nikita Kucherov reached the 600-point mark. While the milestones were front and center, other details could have been lost in plain sight. Which is why coach Jon Cooper said his team isn’t making too much of the lopsided win. If the second-place Maple Leafs (108 points) and third-place Lightning (102) remain where they are in the Atlantic Division standings, they’ll face each other in the opening round of the playoffs, with Toronto earning home-ice advantage. “I really like a lot of things we did, but don’t read too much into it,” Cooper said. “It was one game.” Toronto played without league goal-scoring leader Auston Matthews (58), who had a hat trick in the Maple Leafs’ 6-2 victory over the Lightning earlier this month. Matthews has been sidelined the past three games with an undisclosed injury. The Leafs also were without All-Star goaltender Jack Campbell, who stopped 32 of 34 shots in Toronto’s April 4 win. Still, the Lightning were successful because they “earned a lot of (their) own breaks,” Cooper said. Though it was outshot 14-7 in the first period, Tampa Bay had more scoring chances. It also limited turnovers, shortened the ice with clean stretch passes and played with a renewed sense of urgency. “We play the way we want to play for the majority of the game, it’s going to give us a chance,” Stamkos said. “... We just kept pressuring all night, and you get rewarded when you play like that.” Point expected to return Saturday Cooper said after the game that he hopes first-line center Brayden Point will return for Saturday’s contest against the Predators. Point, who ranks second on the team in goals (27) and fourth in points (55), did not play Thursday due to a lower-body injury. The team described his status as day-to-day. “We’re hoping he’ll be back for Saturday,” Cooper said. Point missed 14 games earlier this season with a shoulder injury. He returned to the lineup on Dec. 28. Lightning return to 11-7 lineup With Point out, the Lightning switched to an 11-forward, seven-defenseman lineup. Defensemen Cal Foote and Zach Bogosian, who have alternated as healthy scratches in recent games, both played against the Maple Leafs. It was nothing new for the Lighting, who have grown comfortable changing setups on quick notice. In 2020, Tampa Bay used an 11-7 lineup for most of its postseason run to the first of its back-to-back Stanley Cup championships. The team wasn’t fazed when it learned late Thursday that Point would be unable to play. “I’ve been here almost a decade,” Cooper said. “I can’t believe I’m saying that, but most of these players, a lot of them have, too. Nothing we throw at them now is really new. They’re pretty equipped with everything. …Guys don’t blink an eye. We know what we’re doing in that regard.” Forward Alex Killorn said he believed the adjusted lineup helped the Lightning regain some of the urgency that has been missing from its game for the past month. “There was a lot of ice to be had,” Killorn said. “But it definitely gets you in the game quickly.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.