The Florida State Fair is famous (or maybe infamous) for introducing fair food ideas and mashups because it’s the first state fair in the country, thanks to Florida’s balmy weather. That lets vendors test out the audience for things like deep-fried butter and a Buffalo chicken sundae. It was the first to use a doughnut as a bun for a hamburger and to feature the Flaming Hot Cheetos Funnel Cake. When the fair opens Feb. 10-21, expect a hot dog encased in a doughnut and a funnel cake that holds taco fixings. Here are some of the new food options coming to what they say is the country’s largest midway. Poutine sundae: It may sound like a dessert, but this savory treat features fresh cut fries topped with cheese curds, covered in gravy. Add sirloin steak to make the ultimate cheese steak sundae. Found at DeAnna’s Steak Sundaes. Donut dog: A mix of savory and sweet, a homemade Long John Donut is topped with a grilled all-beef hot dog, applewood bacon and a drizzle of icing. Found at DeAnna’s Diner. Deep-fried fruit kebabs: Leave it to the fair to find a way to deep-fry something healthy. Cinnamon City offers fruit kebabs dipped in secret batter and sprinkled with powdered sugar. Pop Rock smoothies: Cinnamon Saloon’s callback to childhood features real fruit smoothies sprinkled with Pop Rocks candies to give you a snap, crackle and pop in your mouth while sipping. Loaded fried pickle nachos: Deep-fried pickle chips are loaded with cheese, bacon, chili, jalapenos and ranch dressing. Found at Chester’s Gators & Taters. Funnel cake taco: At the Best Around booths, a taco shell is dipped in a Buffalo batter funnel cake mix, fried and filled with Buffalo chicken dip. It is then topped with lettuce, cheddar cheese, ranch dressing and Cool Ranch Doritos crumbles. Deep-fried banana pudding: Doughnut holes are topped with banana pudding, whipped cream and a caramel drizzle. Found at DeAnna’s Steak Sundaes. Caramel apple cinnamon roll: Grandma Brown’s Cinnamon Rolls has enhanced its award-winning cinnamon roll recipe by topping it with warm cinnamon apple pie topping, then drizzling it with warm caramel. Add white frosting if you’re feeling really indulgent. Cookie dough explosion: This dessert from Funky Flemingo starts with a freshly baked chocolate chip cookie, which is topped with creamy salted caramel gelato, then two huge scoops of cookie dough, all covered with hot fudge, caramel sauce and whipped cream. Oreo cookies top it off. Hog Trof: This well-named offering from Rising Smoke BBQ features a baked potato, pulled pork, baked beans and cheese topped with creamy coleslaw. Twisted s’mores: Ribbons of potato chips are topped with a chocolate and marshmallow drizzle and graham cracker sprinkles. Found at Shockley’s. Bacon caramel apples: The Apple Cart stand has a crisp Granny Smith apple covered in rich house-made caramel and rolled in real bacon bits. It’s also available drizzled in chocolate. Loaded onion rings: Check out Captain Max’s Fry & Seafood Shack for onion rings with cheese, ranch dressing, bacon bits and chives. Cookies and cream funnel cake: The funnel cake continues to get reinvented with this one featuring red velvet cookies and cream funnel cake with a fudge drizzle. Found at Paulette’s Food.  Tickets are available at Wawa stores through Feb. 9 and online at floridastatefair.com through Feb. 21.