The annual pirate invasion is upon us, and with an abundance of restaurants and bars near the festivities, Gasparilla-goers looking for a drink or snack won’t have to walk far. Depending on where you are on the route, here are five spots at which to fuel up before or after the parade. Counter Culture You can’t get much closer to the route than chef Jeannie Pierola’s contemporary counter-themed restaurant, which sits right near the start, on Bay to Bay Boulevard off Bayshore Boulevard. Serving brunch and dinner (reservations are a must), the restaurant’s open, airy layout provides a prime spot for people-watching while laying a foundation with a plate of cream cheese-filled French toast and a glass or two of something bubbly. 2909 W Bay to Bay Blvd., Suite 100, Tampa. 813-570-8660. cc-tampa.com. BT To Go If you’re looking for something quick to grab on your way to the parade, rather than a full sit-down experience, this fast-casual Vietnamese spot has you covered. It’s also a good pick for healthier options, with dishes like spring rolls, salmon soba bowls and chef BT Nguyen’s crowd-pleasing chili chicken cabbage salad. Hit the road with a crusty banh mi sandwich if you’re looking for something a little sturdier. Pro tip: Grab a Vietnamese iced coffee to-go for an instant pick-me-up. 3215 S MacDill Ave., Tampa. 813-559-1094. bt-togo.com. Bayou Bodega If you’re near Davis Islands, swing by this Caribbean-inspired restaurant and replenish with a glass of natural wine and a hearty bowl of Puerto Rican rice and beans or the excellent Cajun jambalaya, which comes studded with hearty coins of andouille sausage, shrimp, okra and chicken. The colorful decor is inspired largely by the city of New Orleans, so those Gasparilla beads will fit right in. 241 E Davis Blvd., Tampa. bayoubodega.com. Forbici Modern Italian What soaks up excess alcohol and refuels like a few slices of pizza? The pies at Forbici, particularly the excellent pepperoni-topped Cup & Char version, really do the trick. If pizza isn’t your thing, the Hyde Park Village restaurant’s menu features plenty of other dishes, including hearty grain bowls, pastas and meatballs. Vegan, vegetarian and gluten-free options are abundant and the restaurant sports a great cocktail list, too, if you’re looking to keep the party going. 1633 W Snow Ave., Tampa. 813-251-8001. eatforbici.com. Haiku If you’re catching the parade near the end of the route, walk a few blocks over to this downtown Tampa restaurant, which has a large outdoor bar and patio right on N Franklin Street. The Asian fusion spot features a selection of izakaya-style small and shared plates (Wagyu bao buns, anyone?), plus a solid list of creative sushi rolls. (The torch hamachi roll is a must.) The long list of craft cocktails, many of which pull from the restaurant’s sake menu, is the other draw and includes creative quaffs like the Dragon’s Breath Gimlet, which combines Nolet’s gin, sake, cucumber and ginger. 808 N Franklin St., Tampa. 813-644-5787. haikutampa.com.