Putin was quiet Imagine Ukraine if Trump were still president | Letter, Feb. 23 Vladimir Putin didn’t invade anywhere during President Donald Trump’s term. He invaded Crimea and annexed that land during the Obama years but was quiet during the Trump administration’s four years. Putin popped his head up after President Joe Biden was elected. He recognized weakness when he saw it. Tom Frain, Tarpon Springs Learn from others Turning around Hillsborough’s lagging schools | Editorial, Feb. 23 Your editorial on Hillsborough’s struggling schools was informative, but the news is in the third paragraph. Almost all school districts in Florida face the same problems, but the others have largely overcome them. Why not Hillsborough? Superintendent Addison Davis is off to a good start and should be supported, but I suggest that Hillsborough should also look to the other districts that have shown improvement. There is no reason to reinvent the wheel when other schools have figured out ways to improve education in our very vulnerable children. Bruce Margolis, Lake Mary Focus on real priorities Schools strain to help kids with mental health issues | Feb. 23 The past few days have highlighted priorities for education from the educator point of view: curriculum and student mental health needs. That makes me wonder why the state Legislature is so intent on pushing for bills that do not benefit students but demean the public education system? Do legislators really think that elementary students are exposed to topics such as gender differences and appropriate discussions about sex? Are teachers the one to be responsible for “telling” parents about their child’s concerns when that teacher was given confidentiality by the student who trusted them with their “secrets”? What about student’s mental health issues? That’s a cry for help and red flags waving everywhere. These bills being hastily rammed through committees for a signature will not benefit the true issues that education faces outside lessons. By the way, critical race theory is not a subject taught in any public k-12 school in Florida or anywhere else in the United States that I’m aware of. Stop focusing on what is not happening and redirect your energy to what needs prompt attention. Carol Hess, Hudson