TAMPA — The USF women’s team is in an overall funk and a terrible shooting slump, both very apparent in a 54-33 loss to rival UCF on Sunday at the Yuengling Center. It’s a situation that has the Bulls, who entered the season with sky-high expectations and rose as high as No. 13 in the rankings in November, scratching their heads. “We are a very different team than we were in November (when they defeated two top-10 teams),” USF coach Jose Fernandez said. “We rely on a lot of experienced guys who usually play a lot better than what they are playing right now. Today was a game on national television and you lose by 21? … We can’t have this.” The shooting woes for the Bulls (17-7, 7-3 AAC) were never more glaring. They shot 27.7 percent (13-of-37) from the field, 10.5 percent (2-of-19) from 3-point range and 50 percent (5-of-10) from the free-throw line. The 3-point shooting issues stretch back about a month for USF, including the previous two games — 2-of-13 in Wednesday’s win over Temple and 2-of-29 (including missing its first 21 long-range attempts) in a Feb. 6 loss to Tulane. Sunday’s performance, however, was particularly brutal. The 33 points were the Bulls’ lowest in a game in the past five seasons, and their 12 points in the second half were the fifth lowest for a half in program history. Fernandez intimated that his players need to be shooting more on their own. “The only way you get better is by just getting in the gym and shooting and shooting,” Fernandez said. “You also have to give UCF credit (for its defense), but we still have to shoot better. We have to get that confidence back.” The Bulls trailed 27-21 at halftime, thanks to an 8-0 run over the last 2:36. They cut the Knights’ lead to 29-26 with 7:20 left in the third, but that was as close as they would get. UCF closed the quarter on an 8-0 run to lead 40-28 heading into the fourth. The victory for the Knights (18-3, 10-1) increased their lead atop the league and was the second straight dominating performance against their archrival and defending conference champion. UCF rolled 67-51 on Jan. 16. Part of the Bulls’ frustration stems from in the past, when their outside shooting went cold, they often could rely on their post play. In particular, senior Bethy Mununga, who has been among the country’s best rebounders and inside scorers the past few seasons. But Mununga, who has been battling leg injuries the past month, struggled against the Knights, scoring only five points and grabbing two rebounds. Mununga and Dulcy Fankam Mendjiadeu (two points, six rebounds) were often dominated inside by UCF’s Brittney Smith and Masseny Kaba, who finished with 17 and 14 points, respectively, and had a combined 13 rebounds. “With (Mununga’s) experience and her ability, we cannot afford for her to have the type of game she had today,” Fernandez said. “She must play better.” USF forward Shae Leverett, who Sunday set a school record with her 140th career game, was one of the few bright spots for the Bulls, grabbing a game-high 11 rebounds. Guard Elena Tsineke scored 10 points, the only USF player in double figures. Two of the Bulls’ best shooters, Maria Alvarez and Sydni Harvey, shot a combined 2-of-16 from the field. “This (performance) falls on all of us,” Fernandez said. “It falls on me and on our staff. We simply have to come back and get after it, and have some great practices. “(On the remaining regular-season schedule) we have Cincinnati, Wichita State twice, East Carolina and Houston, and we cannot afford to lose any of those games. … If you do, guess what, you’re not going to the NCAA tournament.” • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.