The Polk Museum of Art at Florida Southern College announced it will undergo a $6 million expansion. It will add 10,000 square feet of multipurpose space to the Lakeland museum. The two-story addition will add gallery, classroom and art laboratory space to the current 38,000-square-foot building. The expansion will more than triple the museum’s 3,200 square feet of main gallery spaces. It will enable the museum to display more of its 2,800-piece permanent collection and to expand collections storage. The museum’s collection includes modern and contemporary art, Asian art, art of the ancient Americas, African art and European decorative arts. Plans also include renovating the entrance, replacing flooring throughout the first floor, and updating the second floor galleries, classrooms, and office spaces. The expansion will provide new multi-purpose space with the ability to house at least six new galleries featuring special art collections, special events spaces, classrooms, and additional storage and restoration areas. The museum is home to Florida Southern College’s department of art history and museum studies, the only program of its kind housed in a museum nationwide. Construction is expected to begin in 2023, with a projected completion date in spring 2024. The primary architect is Tim Hoeft of Straughn Trout Associates. “We are elated to build upon the legacy of this impressive museum of fine arts and, through the affiliation of FSC and the museum, now pursue an expanded agenda to offer exhibitions of our treasured permanent collection and welcome an increasing number of visiting exhibitions from the great museums of the world,” Dr. Anne B. Kerr, president of Florida Southern College and member of the PMoA board of directors, said in a news release. “We are proud to be a Smithsonian Affiliate Museum, and this expansion will also enable additional exhibits from the Smithsonian to be shared with our community and students. This expansion of the museum will result in a dynamic arts venue that will greatly enrich the cultural offerings in our community.” In addition to the permanent collection and ongoing exhibitions, currently on display at the museum are “The Art of the Highwaymen: From the Woodsby Family Collection” (through May 22) and “Cross-Cultures/Cross Campus: Through the Eyes of Nan Liu” (through May 8.) The museum is open 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Tuesday-Saturday and 1-5 p.m. Sunday. Free. 800 E Palmetto St., Lakeland. 863-688-7743. polkmuseumofart.org.