TAMPA — Ronde Barber was a late bloomer who played sparingly as a rookie with the Bucs before emerging as one of the best defensive backs in NFL history. Barber’s journey to the Pro Football Hall of Fame will also require more time, but he took a step closer to Canton, Ohio, on Thursday night. Barber failed to be named to the class of 2022 in his second straight year as one of the 15 finalists. He did, however, finish among the final 10 players in voting by the committee. The five modern-day players who earned election are Jaguars offensive tackle Tony Boselli, 49ers defensive tackle Bryant Young, Patriots defensive lineman Richard Seymour, Packers defensive back LeRoy Butler, and Saints and Panthers linebacker Sam Mills. Barber, 46, was attempting to become the second member of the Bucs secondary to gain entrance into the Hall in as many years. Safety John Lynch was enshrined last April after eight straight years as a finalist. Considered one of the most versatile defensive backs in league history, Barber set a standard for playmaking ability. His game-clinching 92-yard interception return for a touchdown in the NFC Championship Game at Philadelphia in the 2002 season still represents the organization’s signature play and sent the Bucs to Super Bowl 37, where they beat the Raiders 48-21. Barber’s resume for enshrinement can’t be ignored. He was a member of the NFL’s All-Decade Team for the 2000s, a five-time Pro Bowl Player, a three-time All Pro and led the league in interceptions with 10 in 2001. A third-round pick by the Bucs out of Virginia in 1997, Barber didn’t emerge as a starter until his second season. Barber did it all and revolutionized the nickel cornerback position with his toughness and versatility. Barber finished his career with 47 interceptions, 197 passes defensed, 15 forced fumbles and 12 fumble recoveries to go with 28 sacks. Boselli, a three-time All-Pro selection and an anchor in the Jaguars’ run of success during the late 1990s, was elected in his sixth try as a finalist. Young played a key role on the 49ers’ Super Bowl championship team in 1994 as a rookie after being selected No. 7 overall. He was a four-time Pro Bowl player named to the NFL All-Decade Team for the 1990′s. He remains the 49ers’ all-time sack leader with 89.5. In 1998, Young sustained a gruesome tibia-fibula fracture in a game against the Giants but returned to action the following season and won NFL Comeback Player of the Year. Seymour was elected after four straight years as a finalist. He spent eight years in New England, recording 357 tackles and 39 sacks while earning three Super Bowl titles. A first-round pick out of Georgia, Seymour spent his final four seasons with the Raiders and finished with 496 total tackles and 57.5 career sacks. Butler, who was the first player to record 20 interceptions and 20 sacks in a career, became the final member of the league’s All-Decade Team in the 1990s to be elected to the Hall. A second-round pick out of Florida State in 1990, Butler was All-Pro four times during his 12 seasons with the Packers. He finished his career with 38 interceptions and 20½ sacks in 181 regular-season games. Mills, who was a five-time Pro Bowl player, was elected in his final year as a modern-day candidate. Mills, who died of cancer in 2005, spent the first nine years of his NFL career with the Saints before coming to Carolina in 1995. He had 1,265 career tackles and 20.5 sacks. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.