CHAPEL HILL, N.C. — Caleb Love had a game-high 18 points, North Carolina used a dominating first half, including scoring the game’s first 18 points, and the Tar Hells romped 94-74 over Florida State on Saturday. Cam’Ron Fletcher scored 16 points and had 10 rebounds, and RayQuan Evans scored 13 for FSU (13-11, 6-8 ACC), which lost its sixth straight after winning five in a row, including an overtime victory against Duke. The Seminoles moved atop the ACC after beating Miami on Jan. 22, their last win, but have now fallen to ninth in the 15-team league. They’ve been struggling with injuries and lost leading scorer Caleb Mills (13.3 points per game) to an ankle injury 7½ minutes into Saturday’s game. FSU was already without redshirt seniors Malik Osborne (season-ending ankle surgery) and Anthony Polite (fractured-wrist surgery), and starting center Naheem McLeod (broken right hand). Should Mills miss any more time, FSU would be without three of its top four scorers who are averaging a combined 33 points per game. “It’s obvious to me that unfortunately we’ve been affected a little bit by not having the availability of our veterans,” FSU coach Leonard Hamilton said. “You don’t ever like to accept that, you like to think that everyone is going to have the next-man-up philosophy. But somehow or another, I think it’s having an adverse effect on us. I thought it showed up this afternoon. ... You can’t go on the road with as talented a team as North Carolina and not be at your very, very best in order to be successful. I thought today we caught them at their best, and I thought we were (nowhere) close to being as good as what I think we’re capable of being.” Amando Bacot had his 19th double double with 17 points on 7-of-9 shooting and 14 rebounds for UNC (18-7, 10-4). RJ Davis and Brady Manek both added 16 points. North Carolina made 7 of 10 shots, including three 3s and a three-point play, while FSU missed its first nine shots and had three turnovers before making a free throw at the 13:03 mark. Love had two 3s and Leaky Black the and-one. Fletcher made the Seminoles’ first basket at 11:32, making the score 24-3. FSU missed 10 shots and had four turnovers, while only grabbing three rebounds, although North Carolina didn’t provide many opportunities on the boards, shooting 11-of-14 through the first 10 minutes. It was 62-24 at halftime, the largest lead the Tar Heels ever had in a league game. They did it shooting 74.2 percent (23-of-31), their best half of shooting in four years, including 9-of-12 from 3-point range. Love had a career-high five 3s and finished 6-of-8 from long distance. Meanwhile, the Seminoles shot 30 percent, had eight turnovers and were outrebounded by 11. Bacot’s basket to open the second half produced the biggest lead at 64-24. FSU outscored the  Heels 50-32 in the second half, when UNC went 3-of-16 behind the arc and shot 39 percent. The Seminoles are home against Clemson on Tuesday, and North Carolina is home against Pittsburgh on Wednesday. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.