Oscar winner Geena Davis, the first woman of color sent to outer space and a bestselling author are lined up for Tampa Theatre’s Limelight speaker series. The three were originally on the historic theater’s 2020 speaker lineup, but the pandemic cut that series short. The series, presented by the Vinik Family Foundation, is designed to bring some of the nation’s most inspiring thought leaders to the Tampa Theatre stage. It was a big hit when it launched in 2019, bringing in legendary coach Lou Holtz and best-selling futurist Michio Kaku. But the 2020 Limelight series was closed because of the pandemic after just one speaker, Olympian Shaun White. The theater announced dates for the remaining three speakers, as well as new single-speaker pricing on all remaining tickets. Jonathan Haidt, 7 p.m. April 2: A professor of ethical leadership at New York University’s Stern School of Business, Haidt is the author of the New York Times bestseller The Righteous Mind: Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion. Haidt is widely considered to be one of the world’s leading experts on the psychology of morality. His early research found that flashes of gut feelings that people then strive to justify after the fact explain why it is so difficult to win a moral argument with good reasoning. Geena Davis, 7 p.m. May 27: The Academy Award winner is one of Hollywood’s most respected actors, appearing in several iconic roles. As acting parts started drying up after she turned 40, Davis, a member of Mensa, founded the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media. It conducts in-depth research comparing male and female roles and is using the data to convince the industry of the need for change. Dr. Mae Jemison, 7 p.m. Sept. 30: The first woman of color in the world to go into space, Jemison served six years as a NASA astronaut. While aboard the space shuttle Endeavour, her mission in September 1992 was to perform experiments in material science, life sciences and human adaptation to weightlessness. She founded the Jemison Group, a technology consulting firm integrating socio-cultural issues into the design of engineering and science projects, such as satellite technology for health care delivery. She has been inducted into both the National Women’s Hall of Fame and the International Space Hall of Fame. Tickets range from $30-$45 and $100 for VIP at tampatheatre.org.