TAMPA — On a warm, windless morning, Phil Parrot-Migas spent roughly 45 minutes defying the locally-rooted stereotype about Canadians operating well below the speed limits. Without even reaching his top gear, this 29-year-old Ontario resident blistered the Bayshore Boulevard pavement Saturday, rendering the rest of the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 15-kilometer field as barely discernible specks in his rear view. Building a 100-yard lead by the second mile, Parrot-Migas coasted to the victory in 46 minutes, 19 seconds — nearly three full minutes ahead of Citrus Park Christian alumnus Trevor Foley (49:01), a University of Florida distance standout who won five high school state titles. “I went with him the first 10 minutes, two miles,” Foley said. “Then I was like, ‘He’s kind of in a league of his own.’” Parrot-Migas’ convincing romp trumpeted the return of this signature local event to near normalcy. The pandemic forced the 2021 race weekend to be staged virtually, with Bayshore open for a certain time window to runners but minus the event’s conventional bells and whistles. And while each 2022 race came with a capped registration, all other amenities — a prize purse, official timekeeping, water stations and DJs along the course, 8 On Your Side Health & Fitness Expo — returned. So did Parrot-Migas, winner of the 15K in 2020, when the start-time wind-chill was announced at 38 degrees. By contrast, he faced no headwind and mild humidity Saturday, when temperatures were flirting with 70 degrees by dawn. “It was a bit cooler (two years ago), so I kind of set my goal to run it again today,” said Parrot-Migas, an account manager for an online race-registration platform that services events in North America, Europe and Australia. “The all-time list for this race is pretty impressive, so to be on the list two times, I’m pretty happy about that. That was the goal for today.” Parrot-Migas crossed the 1-mile mark at 4:40 and barely relented as a smattering of Bayshore residents cheered him along the course. He hit 2 miles at roughly 9:35 and was virtually uncontested upon making the race’s turn at Gandy Boulevard. His triumph marked the third consecutive year a Canadian has won the race; workout partner Chris Balestrini won in 2019. Because he doesn’t reside locally, the race’s top $2,000 prize goes to Foley, who grew up in Brooksville. “I wanted to break 45 minutes, but I was on my feet all day at the Expo (Friday), and then I was at Running USA (Industry Conference) in Orlando as well (earlier in the week),” Parrot-Migas said. “It wasn’t the best prep week, but I made the best of it.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls