Brace yourself for a once-in-a-generation occurrence. Something rarely experienced in this state, less frequent than even Super Bowl triumphs or Worlds Series berths, is set to transpire. The SEC men’s basketball tournament is returning to Florida — a hoops Halley’s Comet of sorts. Amalie Arena, which hosted the tourney in 2009 (when the venue was known as the St. Pete Times Forum), again will stage the five-day, single-elimination event starting March 9. Its only other Florida appearance? Orlando Arena in 1990, when the league’s marquee program (Kentucky) was on NCAA probation and ineligible to participate. For those too absorbed in the NFL playoffs or Winter Olympics to keep a close eye on college hoops to this point, we’re here to help catch you up. Here are a few sights, storylines and subplots to follow when the league’s 14 teams converge in downtown Tampa in less than three weeks. Gators on the bubble Florida coach (and Dunedin native) Mike White, whose only apparent offense in seven mostly solid seasons is not being Billy Donovan, again is catching flak from the orange-and-blue demographic. White’s offensively challenged team enters Saturday’s home showdown against No. 2 Auburn ranked 11th in the SEC in scoring (70.0 ppg), 13th in 3-point percentage (30.1) and last in rebounds per game (34.2). Not helping matters is a shoulder injury to its best player — 6-foot-11 senior Colin Castleton — that recently sidelined him for six games. As a result, the Gators (16-10, 6-7 SEC) might need a noticeable tournament run to make the 68-team NCAA field. They were listed among the “first four out” on ESPN bracketologist Joe Lunardi’s latest projections and were dreadful offensively (28.8 percent from the floor) in Tuesday’s 56-55 loss at Texas A&M that ended the Aggies’ eight-game skid. Tigers the tourney favorites Conventional logic suggested Charles Barkley would sport a mullet before Auburn would be deemed a basketball school, but eighth-year coach Bruce Pearl has pulled off the unthinkable. Pearl’s second-ranked club (24-2, 12-1), which earned the program’s first No. 1 Associated Press ranking earlier this season, possesses no discernible weakness. The Tigers boast a dominant big man in 7-foot-1 sophomore Walker Kessler (12.0 ppg, 4.7 blocks), a perimeter playmaker in guard Wendell Green Jr. (12.7 ppg, 5.1 assists) and a one-and-done phenom in 6-11 freshman Jabari Smith (15.8 ppg, team-best 57 3-pointers). Reinforcements abound behind that trio. Ten players average at least 10 minutes a game, and seven average at least six points. Auburn, which recently gave Pearl an extension that will pay him more than $5 million annually, almost certainly will arrive in Tampa seeking to secure a No. 1 NCAA Tournament seed. Beware the blue wave As sure as food is fried at the state fair, Kentucky loyalists will significantly outnumber any other fan base at the tournament. Bank on it: They’ll overtake the seats inside Amalie and the breezeways bordering it. Like most seasons, their allegiance is validated by a national title-caliber club. John Calipari’s fourth-ranked team (21-5, 10-3) leads the league in scoring (80.6 ppg) and boasts a bona fide Wooden Award candidate in 6-foot-9 junior Oscar Tshiebwe (16.2 ppg, 15.3 rpg) among its talented ensemble. If the bracketology gods are benevolent, they’ll gift us with a UK-Tennessee rubber match at some point in the tournament. After suffering a 28-point embarrassment at Rupp Arena on Jan. 15, the No. 16 Vols (19-6, 10-3) responded with a chippy 76-63 romp Tuesday that featured a technical foul on UK’s strength coach. Coaching for their jobs? A handful of league coaches also will arrive in Tampa on the bubble, possibly coaching for their immediate futures. Georgia’s Tom Crean — who led Marquette to the Final Four once upon a time — has 15 SEC wins in four seasons and enters with a foundering team (6-20, 2-12). Frank Martin, in his 10th season at South Carolina, again has a middling team (15-10, 6-7) and only one NCAA berth (a 2017 Final Four run) to show for his lengthy tenure. Ole Miss’ Kermit Davis might be safer at this point than Crean or Martin, but his team (12-14, 3-10) entered the weekend riding a four-game skid. And of course White — 139-85 with four 20-win seasons and four NCAA berths in Gainesville — can’t catch a break from his fan base, but only because it grew spoiled during Donovan’s unprecedented reign that included back-to-back national titles. Odds and ends Three SEC teams — Kentucky, Auburn and Tennessee — currently are in the top 10 of the NCAA Evaluation Tool (NET) rankings, the primary gauge used for assessing teams’ NCAA tourney resumes. LSU and Alabama also are in the top 25. ... USF fans who attend the tournament will encounter some familiar faces on the sideline. Former Bulls coach Orlando Antigua, he of the forgettable three-year tenure from 2014-2017, is Calipari’s top lieutenant at Kentucky; and former Stan Heath assistant Steve Roccaforte serves on Texas A&M’s staff. ... This year’s tourney represents a one-shot deal of sorts for Tampa; the event will be held in Nashville the next eight seasons. ... Yes, Vanderbilt point guard Scotty Pippen Jr. — the media’s preseason pick for SEC Player of the Year — is the son of the Hall-of-Famer, though they spell their first names differently. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.