The big story: Two bills that have come to encapsulate Florida’s culture war battles in schools hit the state House floor today. House leaders have set aside three hours for members to discuss HB 7, which purports to stop indoctrination by teachers over race and gender issues in schools. They have scheduled two hours to cover HB 1557, which would limit instruction about sexual identity and gender orientation, while also aiming to expand parents’ ability to control what their children learn in school. Opponents of the two measures spent much of Monday preparing to combat the legislation, though they acknowledge not having enough votes to stop them from passing. LGBTQ advocates held a press conference to share personal stories and warn that the proposals could lead to increased hate and misunderstanding among students, Florida Politics reports. Democratic lawmakers meanwhile took aim at a proposed amendment to HB 1557 by its sponsor that they said made the bill even worse than its original form. Read on for that story. The full House convenes at 1 p.m. You can watch the action on The Florida Channel. Also today in Florida LGBTQ school news, a federal appeals court will hear the St. Johns County school district case about transgender student rights. The case has drawn national attention, the News Service of Florida reports. Tallahassee action The Florida Senate is poised to advance legislation imposing term limits on school board members. The bill also would make it easier for residents to challenge books in local schools, the News Service of Florida reports. Legislation to require Florida high schoolers to take a semester-long financial literacy course is gaining steam. So far, no lawmaker has opposed the bill in any committee, the Washington Post reports. Other school news The University of South Florida offers one of two Deaf Studies degree programs in the state. It recently announced the program would shut down, leading to protests and petitions. Lee County schools began integrating in the 1960s. Some of the former students who pioneered the effort say more work remains, WINK reports. The Palm Beach County school district is building a new three-story elementary school in Boca Raton. The school is supposed to ease crowding in the growing area, the Sun-Sentinel reports. The Citrus County school district is preparing for enrollment growth. Its first planned projected is an expansion at Floral City Elementary, the Citrus County Chronicle reports. The Bay County school district converted its technical center to a college. The family whose namesake is on the school celebrated the change, the Panama City News Herald reports. Teacher contract negotiations are continuing in Alachua County. The union has asked the district to add $3.8 million more to its salary package, the Independent Alligator reports. Got grass? The Duval County school district is considering whether to install turf in every high school’s football stadium, the Florida Times-Union reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... It’s NASCAR season again. The question of the day from the Daytona kickoff: Where’s the engine? Driver Myatt Snider walked away from this big one. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.