Now in its 10th year, the Gasparilla Music Festival returns to Tampa’s Curtis Hixon Park on Feb. 25-27, bringing a weekend of music and food. Headliners are psychedelic-soul duo Black Pumas, New Orleans-based rock band The Revivalists and Trombone Shorty & Orleans Avenue, who play a mix of genres including jazz, funk, rock and soul. Legendary singer Mavis Staples will also perform. Food and beverages are provided by local restaurants including Big Red BBQ, Cafe Hey, Ichicoro and Ella’s Folk Art Cafe. At the core of the festival is a mission to support music education. It’s produced by the Gasparilla Music Foundation, which also supports music education through the Recycled Tunes program. The program gives donated instruments to schools and music programs at drives throughout the year. The instruments are refurbished by Don Banks Music, a Tampa music store. The festival is back to its usual time of year after being postponed to the fall in 2021 due to the pandemic. Guests were required to show negative COVID-19 tests or proof of vaccination at that show. According to the festival’s website, health and safety are a top priority, and additional screening may be required for entry. Details about those policies, if there are any, will be announced closer to the event. Beyond the stacked lineup, the festival is meant to bring the community together. It’s driven by volunteers who dedicate their time to make it happen. Roxanne Gallo is the emcee manager, and finds local personalities to announce bands and programs including Recycled Tunes. “It’s a community festival. We’re not just having big names,” she said. “We’re having regional and local bands. And so we should have regional and local representation of our area, talking to folks not just about the acts but about the mission of the foundation, and seeing like ‘hey, this is your neighbor.’” Kids from the School of Rock Tampa and the Metro Youth Orchestra are performing at the festival. Gallo said that element is important to “give kids a taste of it.” One benefit of volunteering at the festival is being able to hear so much music. Gallo is excited to see Grouplove, because they do the theme song for the animated TV show Bojack Horseman, of which she is a fan. Gallo plans to dress up in a costume as Princess Carolyn, one of the characters on the show. “I’m excited to gather together in community again,” she said. “It’s been a really rough few years, and I feel like this is like healing. And so I’m excited.” Sean Pomeroy is the stage manager for the Ferman Amphitheatre, where local and regional bands will play, including his own, Ghost Front. Despite the crazy logistics of loading bands in and out, Pomeroy enjoys giving younger bands “their first taste of being a rock star” by getting them food and beverages and setting up their gear. Pomeroy said the festival is a good platform for newer bands, with local promoters in attendance. After his former band Sorrows played the festival a few years ago, they played on two radio stations and were interviewed by five stations across the country. But beyond the potential for exposure, the festival’s mission is Pomeroy’s reason for committing. “The charity itself, Recycled Tunes, really is impactful,” he said. “It’s why we all do it. We really believe in it ... It’s pretty wild to know that a kid is going to get to play drums or guitar bass or something that (they) wouldn’t get the chance to otherwise.” Tickets range from $45-$95 for general admission, $125-$250 VIP and $300-$700 Rock It Club VIP, all with multiday packages available. Curtis Hixon Park, 600 N Ashley Drive, Tampa. Find the full lineup and get more information at gasparillamusic.com.