Situated between Lake Seminole and Belcher Road, the communities of Bardmoor and Osceola are about as central as one can get in Pinellas County. Sitting in a strip of unincorporated Pinellas County between the cities of Seminole on the west and Pinellas Park to the east, it’s close to shopping, great schools, splendid Lake Seminole Park, and the Gulf beaches. A few minutes by car are the most desirable destinations in the county, including downtown St. Pete, Clearwater Beach and the waters of Tampa Bay. That explains why so many homebuyers want to be there, said Mark Hartman, who heads the Hartman real estate team at Charles Rutenberg Realty. It also explains why these days the number of single-family homes on the market there usually can be counted on one hand. Hartman said the Bardmoor neighborhoods have lots of homes dating to the 1950s and 1970s, but with an appearance that belies its age. Neighborhood pride is high, it’s quiet and well away from the “hustle and bustle.” “It’s very well kept and the homes have all been well cared for or updated,” he said, adding the community is popular among working families with children, as well as retired seniors. All the neighborhoods between Lake Seminole (west), Bryan Dairy Road (north), Belcher Road (east) and Park Boulevard (south) are residential with a noticeable absence of commercial intrusion, even along busy Starkey Road, which bisects the area. U.S. Census data for Bardmoor’s three named neighborhoods: Bardmoor North and South, and Chateaux De Bardmoor, show a population of 9,373 people and 3,790 households within the 2.2-square-mile area. The median age of residents is 46.9, with 55 percent between the ages of 18 and 64. The data indicate that many work close to home, as the average work commute is under 22 minutes. The Census data show the median home value in the region is $174,600. Don’t count on finding anything priced so low, however, as that data was collected in 2019 and housing values have changed, to say the least. “Prices are stratospherically high,” said Hartman, who said right now buyers will do best house-hunting for a newer or updated 3/2 single-family home in Bardmoor and surrounding neighborhoods if they have a budget close to $500,000. Older, smaller single-family homes can be had for less. There is a listing now for a 1971-built 2/2 with 1,690 square feet for $325,000. There’s a renovated 3/2 with 1,900 square feet and a pool that was built in 1957 listed for $455,000. Tim Miles, owner-broker of Eagle Crest Realty, echoes Hartman’s take on prices in this part of the county. “Let’s just say they (home prices) are up substantially,” he said. Miles has been selling in Pinellas County since 1991 and he’s seen some ups and downs over that time, but nothing quite like the red-hot seller’s market we’re experiencing now. He listed a 4/2/2 home in Bardmoor built in 1976 for $425,000 on Monday. By Tuesday he had 32 requests for showings and eight offers—all of them for more than the asking price. “If I hadn’t cut off the offers, I’d probably have eight more offers by now,” he said Tuesday. Miles said the living is great in all the Bardmoor-area neighborhoods. “The quality of life is as good, as it is for most parts of Pinellas County,” he said. “We have the beaches, the weather, the shopping, the sports teams; it’s a great place, really.” Lots of local families eye this part of Pinellas for their next home, but it’s also flashing on the radars of out-of-state buyers. “Massive amounts of people are moving here,” Miles said, adding many are coming from the large northeastern states and California. Florida’s weather, lack of state income taxes, inexpensive (by comparison) real estate and championship sports teams add up to a “lot of appeal.” For homebuyers with children, the schools are a big draw. Osceola Fundamental High School, a magnet school, is the top-rated in math and reading proficiency among the county’s 42 high schools by www.publicschoolreview.com. Starkey Elementary is among the top 33 percent of the county’s 132 elementary schools, and Bardmoor Elementary is in the top half. Another feature of the area is the highly rated Bardmoor Golf & Tennis Club. The 19-hole championship course has been host to 13 PGA and LPGA tour events. It plays 7,015 yards from the long tees, with a par of 74 and difficulty of 131. The course is open to the public and various club membership packages are available. The club also is home to the Harry Hopman Tennis Academy, with 14 Har-Tru clay and hard courts. There also are six lighted pickleball courts. Beach lovers living in the Bardmoor Osceola neighborhoods are just a 13-minute drive to Madeira Beach. Among other attractions close by is popular John’s Pass Village and Boardwalk—about 20 minutes by car. The Florida Botanical Gardens attraction is 15 minutes from the Bardmoor-Osceola area. Despite being a densely developed part of the county, there is a surprising amount of green space set aside, the largest and closest being Lake Seminole Park, which stretches 1.75 miles along the eastern shore of the lake. The park’s features include 2 miles of multi-use trails, ball fields, playground and boat launching for anglers, water skiers, jet skiers and pleasure boaters. Other parks nearby include Helen S. Howarth Community Park, which has a dog park; Boca Ciega Millennium Park, which has a dog park, as well as extensive nature boardwalks and an observation tower overlooking Boca Ciega Bay; Walsingham Park on 100-acre Walsingham Lake, with 6 miles of trails, a dog park and non-motorized boating; and War Veterans’ Memorial Park, also on Boca Ciega Bay, which has a canoe paddling trail, a pay boat launch, playground and picnic shelters. There’s a Memorial Center at the park honoring the service members of each of the U.S. military branches.