TAMPA — In the middle of all the racing Sunday morning at the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic half-marathon, a world record fell in dramatic, hard-fought fashion when 38-year-old Marko Cheseto crossed the finish line — on his prosthetic running blades — in one hour, 16 minutes, 58 seconds. No double amputee runner had ever completed 13.1 miles faster. New Jersey’s Brian Reynolds held the double-amputee record at 1:17:05, a time Cheseto had burned into his brain. That’s why Groveland’s Cheseto — who started Sunday’s race at 6 a.m. feeling great, only to struggle mightily in the heat and humidity once the sun rose — said he “pushed harder than I ever have at the end of any race in my life.” “I said, ‘Oh my gosh, I know I’m so close, I just can’t miss this today,’” Cheseto said. “So I pushed so hard and I was struggling so much, but I just had to do it. I just had to.” When he did, Cheseto — who initially moved from Kenya to the University of Alaska Anchorage — finished 11th overall and got one of the biggest ovations of the day, applause he followed by gladly, and most humbly, retelling his incredible story. A book could be written about the tale, and it has been told in many shorter versions. For Sunday’s purposes, he felt a few details must be explained. He arrived at the University of Alaska Anchorage in 2008 on a running scholarship, where he grew into a Division II All-American. In 2011, Cheseto’s cousin joined him on the team, but died by suicide, a loss that sent Cheseto into a deep depression. One day, after taking too much anti-depressant medication, he went for a run in the snow. He awoke three days later, his shoes frozen to his feet. The frostbite was so severe that he lost both legs below the knees. He came out of the surgery and said he had an epiphany, which ultimately led him toward a great desire to tell his story again and again for one great purpose: To help others. “Prior to my amputation I never accepted that I was depressed,” Cheseto said. “I was in denial. I was thinking, ‘What if I would have accepted that I was depressed and talked to somebody and told my story. Wouldn’t that have helped?’ I think it would have. I thought, ‘You know what, I’m going to share my story.’ “I don’t want anybody to be afraid of sharing their story of depression, thinking it was going to be stigmatizing or that they would look crazy.” So Cheseto runs on his blades and he smiles and he tells his story, and if you like, he most certainly will listen to yours. He also continues to run faster and faster, despite the blades and despite getting older. Cheseto, by the way, set the world record for a double amputee in a marathon in November 2021 when he finished the New York City Marathon in 2:35:55. “This running started as a therapy for me and now it’s something I do for a living, because I have gotten a sponsorship,” said Cheseto, who between running 100 miles a week gives many speeches and has started a school in Kenya. “All of it gives me a chance to tell my story and to listen to other people’s stories. “When people see me running, I hope it inspires people. I think maybe if people see someone running with no feet, they might think, ‘What’s my excuse?’ "