TAMPA — Jeremiah Woodward doesn’t have a Lightning contract like Steven Stamkos, but he still finds his way into and around an ice rink. And the 23-year-old Tampa resident doesn’t have to wear skates to play the game. Woodward has everything he needs in his office as a content creator for the team, specifically honing in on streaming platforms like Twitch and YouTube to help bring in new audiences and captivate old ones in different ways. “Just understanding what the people want to see, what makes it a good production versus what makes it the generic one and trying to find something that makes us unique (is important),” Woodward said. Woodward was self-employed in his previous home of Port St. Lucie, creating his own content on YouTube — with a reach of more than 104,000 subscribers — by recording himself playing video games when the Lightning reached out in the summer of 2019. They took note of his “light-hearted nature” and asked if he’d be interested in helping the organization build a gaming presence. “I thought that was super cool, because I had been a fan of the Lightning for years,” Woodward recalled. Woodward is one of the hosts at the helm of the Bolts Gaming section of Vinik Sports Group, expanding the Lightning’s brand into niche audiences through the same video games and streaming platforms he grew up playing and using. He has helped the brand start and grow a Twitch presence with more than 27,900 followers and he works as a key coordinator for the yearly Bolts Chel Challenge, an esports tournament hosted by the Lightning. All while maintaining his own brand. At home, Woodward will go live on Twitch and play a video game for three or four hours. Viewers will pay Woodward through a channel subscription or by donating “bits” (the platform’s currency). The community Woodward built years ago — denoted as his “Pineapple Community” after he was caught singing a pineapple-themed jingle during one of his streams — is the same one that continues to support him today. “I’m literally just a guy playing video games for three or four hours, and that’s that’s a business,” he said. “I can’t even wrap my head around how it works or why it works, but I’m super, super thankful for the community I have and how supportive they are.” The irony to Woodward’s success is that he isn’t a self-proclaimed gaming expert. It’s why he believes he thrives in the industry. “I, myself, am terrible at video games,” he said. “That’s kind of my market. I understand and I’m self-aware that I’m bad at video games, but I’m purely for entertainment, just trying to have a good time with it while other people are like, ‘You’re so bad,’ and I’m like, ‘Yes, I am, and I’m having fun.’” Often, Woodward is looking for chaos when he sits with a controller in his hands. He has the same approach when he’s playing with the Lightning players, too. In late January, he sat with forwards Ross Colton and Taylor Raddysh playing NHL 22 on a PlayStation4 for more than an hour, celebrating team successes and jeering when someone made a wrong move. “We’re getting chirped a little bit,” Woodward told Raddysh and Colton before the trio began another game of NHL 22 threes. “They’re saying we should keep our day jobs, but yours is, like, actual hockey.” Ideally, Woodward would like to see more player involvement with the pandemic-related regulations easing up around the league. “I think the more we do it, the more fun they have with it,” Woodward said. “... At the end of the day, the Lightning fans are going to be more engaged with streams and gaming content that has to do with Lightning players.” Creating recaps of the games — where he records live reactions to different plays and goals — is another way Woodward tries to reach out to a different part of the community. It’s something he prides himself on because the Lightning are one of the few teams in the league to post content in that way. “Maybe they can’t watch the game live because they had work, or maybe they can’t watch live because they didn’t have the right channel,” Woodward said. “It’s just another way for them to get the highlights, get caught up to date, while also encouraging them to tune in live if they can.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.