TAMPA — Revenge was in the air, tumbling end over end between the uprights in the north end zone at Raymond James Stadium. Matt Gay didn’t just kick the Rams to the NFC Championship Game with his winning 30-yard field goal three weeks ago; he ended the Bucs’ season and sent Tom Brady into retirement. It wasn’t that dissimilar to how Gay’s first game with the Rams ended in 2020. He kicked a 40-yard field goal to give Los Angeles the lead for good in a 27-24 win over the Bucs at Raymond James Stadium. For a player who was drafted by the Bucs in the fifth round in 2019 and given up on after an inconsistent rookie year, Gay bore no dark, personal feelings toward the team that gave him his start in the NFL. That doesn’t mean he didn’t enjoy the dickens out of it. “I’d be lying if I said there wasn’t a little extra incentive, a little extra motivation for that situation,” Gay said. “I don’t think it was anything like revenge or anything like that. I think there was just a little bit more on your mind going into it.” Gay, 27, will be on the biggest stage in the NFL when he takes the field at SoFi Stadium for Super Bowl 56 against the Bengals. It is the culmination of a remarkable season in which Gay made 39 of 43 field-goal attempts, including the playoffs, and was named to the Pro Bowl. The Bucs unfortunately couldn’t coax that kind of performance out of the former Utah star despite demonstrations of his enormous potential. Kicking collapses have been a thing in Tampa Bay since the Bucs released Matt Bryant at the start of the 2009 season. The failure prompted the Bucs to use a second-round pick (56 overall) on Florida State’s Roberto Aguayo in the 2016 draft. Aguayo finished his rookie season with the worst field-goal percentage in the NFL among kickers attempting more than two; he went 22-of-31. That prompted the Bucs to sign veteran Nick Folk, guaranteeing him $750,000. After missing a 47-yard field goal and an extra point in the Bucs’ first preseason game in 2017, Aguayo was waived and never attempted another kick in the NFL. Against this backdrop, Gay was drafted and immediately felt the weight of the Bucs’ wayward kicking problem. He also was only 24 with a new wife and baby, trying to settle in a long way from his home in Orem, Utah. “My rookie year, I had a lot of good, a lot of bad,” Gay said. “Ups and downs. Just kind of learning and figuring out how to be a pro on and off the field. I had some stuff going on. Off the field, the birth of my child around the first game of the first year. So it was about being able to handle the off-the-field stuff, to compartmentalize some things. Understanding how to be a pro’s pro. All that, whether it was good or bad, it’s brought me to this spot.” Gay’s entire career has been one of quick adaptation. He played forward for the Utah Valley University soccer team from 2014-16, recording eight goals and five assists. Prior to that, he was a two-time, first-team all-state soccer player for Orem High School, where he set a school record for scoring while also playing on the football team. Halfway through his career at Utah Valley, Gay decided to try out for Brigham Young University and Snow College. But it wasn’t until he attended a camp at Utah that he was offered a roster spot as a walk-on. It was only five years ago that Gay won the starting job for the Utes and became the Lou Groza Award winner as the nation’s top kicker after going 30-for-34 and making all 40 PATs. “It means everything … seeing the whole journey even going back to college and how I got started kicking,” Gay said. “Again, I’m a man of faith and being able to look back and see that God’s hand is in the whole process that I’m in. Sometimes, I was fortunate enough to have the Buccaneers draft me and sometimes there’s good fits and there’s not. ... “You’re able to go through some hardships and learn a lot about yourself about who you are and land in a great place where L.A. might be a better fit for me.” Sunday’s game could well come down to a final kick by either Gay or Bengals placekicker Evan McPherson, the former Gator. McPherson needs two successful kicks to tie former Patriots and Colts kicker Adam Vinatieri with 14 made field goals in the playoffs. “Evan has done nothing but proved himself as one of the best kickers in this league,” Gay said. “I mean, he’s a stud. He’s had a great rookie year, especially these playoffs, he’s been unbelievable.” Gay’s confidence also is climbing. The Bucs have been happy with Ryan Succop, who stabilized the position and helped them to a win Super Bowl 55 win over the Chiefs. But Succop is 35 and doesn’t possess nearly the leg strength to prevent being challenged every year in training camp. How will Gay handle the pressure Sunday? He says for about 1.3 seconds — the time it takes to snap the ball and place it with the holder — the noise goes silent and he focuses on his steps, his process, then lets his muscle memory take over. The thought of a game-winning kick in the Super Bowl runs through his mind. “I think it’s any athlete, right?” Gay said. “If you’re in sports, you count down the shot clock as you shoot a 3-pointer. You make that game-winning kick. Those are the moments you envision yourself in when you mess around as a kid. “That’s something you want and you look forward to. I’m just blessed to be in this game and have those opportunities.”