The big story: Not so long ago, Republican lawmakers were the ones complaining about how conservative voices were being drowned out in schools by the left-wing agenda. Now they’re moving proposals in the Florida Legislature to stifle classroom discussions about race, LGBTQ and other more liberal issues, The potentially affected communities are fighting back. Leaders of some groups have suggested that the measures advancing through the House and Senate, which they called “educational gag orders,” seem to violate both students’ and teachers’ 1st and 14th amendment rights. They said they’re fighting to have diverse stories about the nation and its citizens taught and shared without interference, as WUSF reports. That’s what many students who feel under attack want, too. On Monday, a group of them took to the street outside their school in conservative northwest Hillsborough to make that point. “I have been bullied because I am lesbian,” Gaither High junior Saneria Knott said. “Now I don’t really care what anybody says. I’m going to show that. I am going to support my pride.” Read on for the story. It’s not just Florida. Students and teachers across the nation have felt a chilling effect about what they can discuss in schools, the Washington Post reports. More from CNN. Hot topics Teacher pay: The Hillsborough County school district and its teachers union reached a tentative contract agreement, giving teachers full credit for an extra year of service and guaranteeing minimum pay of $47,500. Name, image and likeness rules: Florida was a national leader in creating NIL rules for student athletes. As a result, it’s behind states with less restrictive laws. Sexual assault: Some Escambia County parents want their school district to improve prevention efforts after a student was assaulted at a middle school, WEAR reports. Tallahassee action There’s a push for adding more Black history into Florida schools. State Sen. Randolph Bracy, D-Ocoee, is pushing legislation to require more instruction about Emancipation Day in schools, suggesting opposition to “critical race theory” is election rhetoric, Florida Politics reports. More from WMFE. What’s a Florida legislative session without a new voucher or scholarship program? A Florida House subcommittee advanced legislation to create a new $1,000 voucher for low-achieving students whose schools have been closed for 10 or more days because of crises or disasters, Florida Politics reports. Not up for school today? Students would be allowed to have excused absences for mental health needs under a bill moving through the Florida House, WFLA reports. Today in Tallahassee ... Previously scheduled House education committees have canceled their meetings. No major education bills are set for consideration. Other school news Miami-Dade County’s new superintendent took over on Monday. José Dotres acknowledged he faces some big challenges, including winning public trust after a search that raised many questions, the Miami Herald reports. Not vaccinated yet? The Duval County school district announced it will offer more COVID-19 vaccination clinics, WJXT reports. Peanut butter and jelly is making a return to Lee County schools. The district will have a Facebook Live event to explain the details, WINK reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... Favorite Super Bowl commercial? This one made me laugh. (Stop eavesdropping, Alexa!) • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.