USF’s 2022 football schedule begins with a home game against BYU, includes trips to Florida, Louisville, Cincinnati and Houston and ends with a rivalry game against UCF that may or may not be on Black Friday. The Bulls’ non-conference schedule has been previously announced, but the other games were filled in Thursday by the AAC. Jeff Scott will begin his third season at Raymond James Stadium against the Cougars, who are 21-4 over the last two seasons and are set to join the Big 12 in the coming years. Up next is a home game against Howard, coached by Larry Scott — a member of USF’s inaugural recruiting class and a former assistant at Freedom High, USF, Miami and Florida. The Bulls will travel to Gainesville to play the Gators on Sept. 17 as part of their two-for-one series. Florida beat USF 42-20 at Raymond James Stadium last season and is scheduled to host the Bulls again in 2025. After that, USF makes another road trip to a Power Five opponent to face Louisville. USF begins conference play against East Carolina at home on Oct. 5 then must play at Cincinnati. The Bearcats cracked the Group of Five glass ceiling last year by making the College Football Playoff but lose a significant amount of contributors from that team. USF’s homecoming game is set for Oct. 15 against Tulane. After an open date, USF opens its final five-game stretch at Houston, another future Big 12 member. The only finalized weeknight game is a visit to Tulsa on Friday, Nov. 18. The Bulls close at home against rival UCF on either Black Friday or Nov. 26. Kickoff times and television information will be announced in the coming months. Here are the full schedules for USF and UCF: USF schedule Sept. 3: vs. BYU Sept. 10: vs. Howard Sept. 17: at Florida Sept. 24: at Louisville Oct. 1: vs. East Carolina Oct. 8: at Cincinnati Oct. 15: vs. Tulane (homecoming) Oct. 22: Off Oct. 29: at Houston Nov. 5: at Temple Nov. 12: vs. SMU Nov. 18 (Friday): at Tulsa Nov. 25 or 26: vs. UCF UCF schedule Sept. 1 (Thursday): vs. South Carolina State Sept. 9 (Friday): vs. Louisville Sept. 17: at Florida Atlantic Sept. 24: vs. Georgia Tech Oct. 1: vs. SMU Oct. 8: Off Oct. 13 (Thursday): vs. Temple Oct. 22: at East Carolina Oct. 29: vs. Cincinnati (homecoming) Nov. 5: at Memphis Nov. 12: at Tulane Nov. 19: vs. Navy Nov. 25 or 26: at USF • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.