The latest — and presumably last — of Tom Brady’s milestone touchdown passes isn’t being returned to the future Hall of Famer. At least, not without a substantial cost. The ball used for what currently stands as Brady’s last touchdown throw — a 55-yarder to Mike Evans in the fourth quarter of the Bucs’ 30-27 playoff loss to the Rams — is being offered in the Lelands 2022 Winter Classic Auction starting Sunday. In its 37th year, Lelands proclaims itself on its web site “the first sports memorabilia and card auction house in the world.” Jordan Gilroy, its director of acquisitions, said the consignor — who presumably snagged the ball after Evans chucked it into the south end zone seats at Raymond James Stadium — has asked to remain anonymous. The pass was the 710th of Brady’s 22-season career, counting the regular season and playoffs. Nine days later, he announced he was walking away from the game (without ever using the word “retire”) in a lengthy Instagram post. “With all the hype surrounding his retirement and the Super Bowl right now and the peak of the market, I wouldn’t be surprised if it was a half-million-dollar ball or more,” Gilroy said Saturday morning. The ball heads to auction roughly eight months after Brady’s first NFL touchdown pass — a 21-yarder to Terry Glenn on Oct. 14, 2001 — was auctioned off for $420,000. Gilroy said that 20-year-old ball remains the most expensive football ever sold. “And I don’t think there was really anything ever close to that as far as significance goes, or price,” he added. “So this is going to rival that. This might break that as the most expensive football in the world.” Gilroy said the Brady-to-Evans ball was photo-matched by a memorabilia-authentication site called MeiGray. Scuff marks on the ball were matched with photos from Getty Images, which partners with MeiGray in its authentication process. “Usually it’s very tough to prove these things, but now with all the photographers on the field, there’s a photo of Mike Evans with the ball in his hands, and there’s even a Tampa Bay Buccaneers logo on the ball that says 4-3-5,” Gilroy said. “It’s a special code, and it’s on the ball, so it’s 100-percent legit. It’s awesome.” In late October, Evans handed Brady’s 600th regular season TD pass to a fan in the north end zone’s front row after catching it, unaware of the milestone. That fan, 29-year-old St. Petersburg High alumnus Byron Kennedy, returned it to a team staffer moments later, receiving assorted memorabilia and two season passes for the remainder of 2021 in exchange. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.