Evan McPherson is McFearless. That’s just one name earned by Bengals’ rookie placekicker from the University of Florida. He filed to trademark Money Mac prior to connecting on a 31-yard field goal in overtime to beat the Chiefs and send his team to Super Bowl 56. He told his holder, punter Kevin Huber before that kick, “Let’s just be legendary. Let’s put this ball through and let’s go to the Super Bowl.” It’s the same way McPherson called his shot on the sideline just moments before a 52-yard game-winner in the division playoff to beat the Titans, telling quarterback Joe Burrow, “Welp, it’s time to go to the AFC Championship Game.” “You’re kind of like a sniper,” McPherson said Monday. “You’ve got one shot and one kill. It’s truly cut and dry. You either make the kick or miss it. So I think knowing how important your job is, you’re going to do everything in your power to make that kick and it doesn’t matter if the crowd is a record-setting number of decibels.” McPherson has had no trouble tuning out the noise. He says playing in the SEC helped, but his focus in on the process, not the results. “All eyes are on you. You know that subconsciously, but in the moment, you feel like nobody is watching,” he said. “Those 1.3 seconds, you don’t hear anything.” Next to quarterback Joe Burrow, the most talked about player during the Bengals’ incredible run to Sunday’s Super Bowl against the Rams has been McPherson, the only kicker selected in the NFL draft last year. He was taken in the fifth round after making 51 of 60 field-goal attempts in three years with the Gators. When he arrived in Cincinnati, Burrow noticed there was a swagger about McPherson not normally associated with kickers. “Obviously kickers aren’t usually drafted that high, but I figured if we’re drafting a kicker, he’s going to be really good for us,” Burrow said. “Then I met Evan and you kind of know how a kicker is going to perform based on how he reacts and interacts with people in the locker room. All the kickers can kick it and put it through the uprights, but it’s really how you handle the intense situations that’s going to really make or break your reputation as a kicker.” McPherson played soccer until his senior year at Fort Payne High in Alabama, but he spent all four years as the team’s kicker and punter. His 60-yard field goal and 84-yard punt were each one yard shy of the state’s high school records. He also was a first-team all-state selection in 2017. His former high school soccer teammates keep him grounded. After those game-winning kicks in the playoffs, McPherson celebrated by playing Fortnite with his prep buddies. “They’re my best friends and they’ll always have my back whatever I choose to do,” McPherson said. “I played soccer with them up until my senior year, but we played together our whole lives … they always supported me and they’re super excited for me.” McPherson’s rookie year has been prodigious but not perfect. He went 28-for-33 in field-goal attempts in 17 games. But sometimes, his enthusiasm has gotten the best of him. He began celebrating prematurely on a 49-yard attempt with four minutes left in overtime in a 25-22 loss to the Packers, only to discover the football hit off the left upright and was no good. “I think you probably learn from your misses more than from your makes and you definitely learn from moments like those,” McPherson said. “So just being able to have a moment like that, being able to bounce back from it, just leaning on my teammates, my family and my faith and just relying on all of them at that moment and just knowing it’s one kick. It doesn’t define me.” Although he’s never met him, McPherson says former Patriots place-kicker Adam Vinatieri has always been a player who has inspired him. He would watch videos of him as a kid and would love an opportunity to end Sunday’s Super Bowl with another game-winning kick. “I think that’s every kid’s dream is to kick the game-winning field goal in the Super Bowl,” McPherson said. “... I just love watching (Vinatieri) kind of go out there and hit the only walk-off game-winning field goal in Super Bowl history (48-yarder versus, who else?, the Rams in Super Bowl 36). I think that’s super cool. If we get the opportunity to do that, I hope we come through with them.” McPherson’s 12 field goals in the postseason are just two shy of Vinatieri’s record from the 2006 playoffs. He has made four in all three postseason games, tying Vinatieri’s record. In addition, his 12 field goals from 50 yards or longer are a single-season record for the regular season and playoffs combined. How beloved is McPherson in Cincinnati right now? Well, Bengals coach Zac Taylor bought his 11-year-old son a McPherson jersey for Christmas. After kicking the Bengals to the AFC title game, his No. 2 jersey was sold out at the team’s pro shop. “He’s been everything that we expected him to be and then some,” Bengals special teams coach Darrin Simmons said last week. “But his mental makeup is fantastic. It’s exactly what you’re looking for in that position.”