TAMPA — The women’s and men’s winners of Saturday’s Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 5K couldn’t be more different — or cool. Katherine O’Sullivan-Sams, a 36-year-old golf pro and mother of two, didn’t start running until seven years ago after her first child was born. O’Sullivan-Sams — who grew up Scotland and now lives in Venice, Fla. — finished in 17 minutes, 57 seconds. Dylan Nolan, a 16-year-old junior at Clearwater Central Catholic who lives in Oldsmar, has been running seven years and has never played golf. Nolan finished in 16:24. Afterward, the winners sat next to each other and talked about how hot it was (mid-80s, their training schedules and how running to both of them is “like a meditation.” O’Sullivan said she derives much of her training schedule from the internet and almost always trains alone. Nolan also trains a good deal by himself, but added that his teammates most definitely “help pick me up on tough days.” On Saturday, O’Sullivan-Sams and Nolan took off in a lead pack with Nolan shooting quickly to the front, where he remained unchallenged by any competitors the rest of the way. Nolan’s only challenge, in fact, was in the final mile where he said he had to struggle through the heat. “I just got over the (Platt Street bridge soon after the start) and found my pace and tried to hold it as well as I could,” said Nolan, who has run a personal-best 16:06 in 5K high school country races and a sub 10-minute 3,200 meters. O’Sullivan-Sams, meanwhile, had 31-year-old Kelsey Mackey of St. Petersburg hot on her heels the entire race, a fact emphasized by many Mackey well wishers along the way. “I could feel (Mackey) close behind and the cheering for her made it clear she was close,” O’Sullivan-Sams said. “But I just go at my own pace because that’s all I can do.” In the end, it was more than enough as O’Sullivan-Sams cruised in eight seconds ahead of Mackey. The plans moving forward for O’Sullivan-Sams include teaching more golf lessons and running about 25 to 40 miles a week, while maybe playing a round or two here and there (her low score is 7-under-par 65). “I’m just running for fun, trying to go for longer runs and use it to get away where nobody is talking to me and get into my own mental space,” said O’Sullivan-Sams, who added that the Gasparilla 5K was her toughest running challenge after winning several smaller races around Venice. “When you’re running you can get to a point where you’re not thinking about your body and you get into a mental space. Running for me is a great mental exercise. … I think running is definitely helping improve my golf game.” Nolan says he plans to train harder and harder with eyes on the upcoming high school track season and ultimately making the state track meet, hopefully in the 1,600 or 3,200 meters. Saturday’s Gasparilla 5K was the first for O’Sullivan-Sams and the fifth for Nolan. Don’t be surprised to see them back here in the future. “It’s always great to run this race,” Nolan said. “I look forward to it.”