Housing as a social issue Some St. Petersburg city workers say they can’t afford their city | Feb. 13 As a community organizer, I have had the opportunity to hear many stories of my neighbors who have had disturbing housing experiences in St. Pete. They aren’t housing experts, but they know the problem intimately because they live it every day and can tell you that their leaders at the local and state level, in large part, haven’t come forward with a serious plan for affordable housing. The housing market across Florida, particularly the Tampa Bay region, has produced enormous wealth. However, when evaluating what the market has done, we also have to be honest that the riches it provides have come hand in hand with massive inequality, disproportionately leaving behind our Black and brown neighbors. It is nearly impossible for lower-income families to afford newly built units at an affordable cost. The fact is that we’re fighting this fight with one hand tied behind our back because we have viewed it almost exclusively through an economic lens. Suppose we are to ever truly create a St. Petersburg where “The sun shines on all.” In that case, we need to start looking at housing as a social issue, where it is our responsibility to guarantee housing for every resident. Nick Carey, St. Petersburg The writer is an organizer with Faith in Florida. The road to authoritarianism Suitable reading: a clash of morals | Feb. 13 I am sad to see the people of this great country talking about banning books. If a person does not want their child to read a particular book, take it up with the teacher. I’m sure they will be happy to suggest something else. Do not ban the book — I may want my child to read it. This is a slippery slope to authoritarianism. We have already made journalists out to be enemies of the people (they are not). We are trying to limit a woman’s right to choose; some states already have. We are making it harder to vote, which is a constitutional right. People want to ban books they do not like. Under democracy they have a right to complain; under authoritarianism they will not be able to. Mary A. Sheppard, Riverview The governor knows better Ad’s Fauci clips misleading | PolitiFact, Feb. 14 Gov. Ron DeSantis has selectively taken words out of context and uses segments from interviews from Dr. Anthony Fauci regarding COVID to give impressions of misstatements and twisted truths to further his political career. One would think having a degree from Harvard, he would have an understanding of science and know that it evolves as studies and research creates new information. Either DeSantis has an utter lack of understanding of how science works or he has created a COVID advertisement so misleading and reckless that he is playing with people’s lives. I believe the latter. Jackie Kanner, St. Petersburg We followed orders Military officers voice vaccine objections in Tampa hearing | Feb. 12 In my three years in the Army I and my fellow servicemen got countless vaccines. I don’t recall having a choice in the matter. We got in line and got our shots. No one objected or complained. We were just following orders as usual. Anyone whining about his body being “a temple” as this officer did would have been loudly laughed at and ordered to get back in line. Pete Wilford, Holiday As a recruit, I got 11 vaccinations Military officers voice vaccine objections in Tampa hearing | Feb. 12 In 1979 I entered Air Force basic training in San Antonio. Shortly after arriving I was given 11 different vaccinations that would allow me to be deployed worldwide on short notice. I was given my shot record and was told not to lose it as it was the only one. Forty-three years later I still have it. I took it out to see just how many shots I was given. I suspect recruits today may be given even more. To say that you won’t get the vaccination due to religious beliefs just doesn’t pass the smell test. Where were their beliefs in basic training? I believe a number of these people are newer members and are trying to use this to get out of the service because they don’t like it and can’t quit. Sam Jordan, St. Petersburg