The public should be heard. The Pinellas school board has a big task ahead in finding the right person to replace superintendent Mike Grego, who is retiring at the end of June after a decade in the top job. So far the district, which serves more than 100,000 students, is sending the right message by ensuring the public has a voice in the process. There are three community meetings set for later this month, and families and district employees will get a chance to respond to a survey. Focus groups are also planned. The public input will help the selection committee better understand what families, teachers and other district employees think should be the top priorities for selecting the next superintendent. It’s impossible to please everyone with decisions like who should run the school district, but allowing people to have their say and to influence the process helps build consensus and buy in. Secrecy and backroom dealings do the opposite. An “A’ for commonsense. The State Board of Education this week agreed that Florida high school seniors who haven’t yet passed their required graduation tests in language arts and math won’t have to meet the higher bar that was supposed to take effect this spring. The tougher requirements were slated to take effect this year for students who began high school after the changes took place in 2018, the Times reported. The board left intact lower scores students may achieve on alternate exams, such as the SAT and ACT, and allowed students to continue using the Postsecondary Education Readiness Test as an alternate to the required Algebra I test for another year. Complications due to the coronavirus pandemic justified postponing the 2018 rules for another year, a district official said. This is a smart — and temporary — move that will help hundreds of Tampa Bay area seniors graduate this year. The pandemic has disrupted many aspects of K-12 education. It makes sense not to adhere too strictly to rules that never contemplated such a long and burdensome pandemic. Do ‘ya now? Commissioner Rob Manfred emerged from the owners meeting in Orlando this week to declare with a straight face that Major League Baseball had “a sense of urgency” to resolve Tampa Bay’s quest for a new Rays stadium. Hey — welcome to the party. Where was that “sense of urgency” when MLB allowed the team and this community to waste two years exploring a split season deal, only to nix a proposed sister city arrangement with Montreal? Where was that “sense of urgency” when the team could have used the help? When area leaders were struggling to craft a viable deal? When local taxpayers were clamoring for some general sense of what keeping the Rays might mean and cost to the region? Speaking to reporters Thursday, Manfred said the uncertainty is “a bad thing” for the team because it “hampers the ability of the business to operate.” Well, duh. And thanks for being part of the problem. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.