The worst of Florida’s omicron wave appears to have passed. Infections have fallen by nearly 50 percent in the past two weeks. While the state has recorded more than 1,000 deaths for three weeks in a row, that appears to have plateaued. Hospitalization numbers and case positivity rates are also falling. Florida health officials recorded 103,022 COVID-19 cases Feb. 4-10, according to the latest state report released Friday. That’s about 14,700 infections per day on average, down from more than 28,000 daily infections just two weeks earlier. The state recorded 1,293 deaths in the past week, down from 1,324 the week before. It’s the first time in seven weeks that Florida’s COVID-19 death rate has fallen. Nearly 2 million Floridians have been infected since the omicron variant was first detected in the state on Dec. 7, and 5,195 have died. The state’s case positivity rate fell to 14.3 percent, the lowest rate in seven weeks. Infection and positivity rates are substantially lower than they were just four weeks ago when the omicron wave was at its peak. But both remain higher than at any point during the state’s first two COVID-19 waves. The omicron variant and its subvariant, known as BA.2, are highly contagious and still pose a significant threat to the unvaccinated and immunocompromised. Florida administered 48,025 first and second doses of vaccine Feb. 4-10, the fewest doses administered in a single week in the state since the vaccine was first distributed in December 2020. Another 35,214 people received a booster dose, also the lowest number since boosters were first rolled out. A quarter of Florida’s eligible population remains unvaccinated. That includes 1.3 million children ages 5-11, who had a positivity rate of 15.7 percent in the past week. At this point in the pandemic, Floridians will have to judge for themselves what level of risk they are willing to take on, said University of South Florida epidemiologist Jason Salemi. “The cautionary behaviors people put in place will be situationally dependent on, among other things, where they live, their levels of risk, and the level of protection conferred through vaccination and/or prior infection,” he said. “There is no blanket recommendation.” Tampa officials this week decided to close the two COVID-19 testing sites they opened after Christmas to handle the sudden demand for testing. They cited “case rates decreasing and the increasing capability of private pharmacies, health care providers and home testing kits available to now meet the demand for COVID-19 testing.” The first, a walk-up site in Al Lopez Park, will shut down Saturday. The other, a drive-thru site at Al Barnes Park, will close on Feb. 26. Hillsborough County continues to operate four testing sites, including one at the West Tampa Community Resource Center. Pinellas operates several sites. As the omicron wave subsides, Florida hospitals are seeing fewer admitted patients, but ICU utilization remains high. An average of 973 confirmed COVID-19 patients were admitted each day Feb. 4-10, a drop of 25 percent from the week before. Florida ended the week with 5,953 COVID-19 patients currently hospitalized — nearly half the number at the peak of the omicron wave. Still, ICU utilization remained above 80 percent, with 15 percent of those patients sick with COVID-19. The number of COVID-19 patients in Tampa Bay hospitals continued to fall over the past week, although numbers remain high. As of Feb. 11, BayCare reported 525 hospitalized COVID-19 patients across its 14 acute care hospitals across the Tampa Bay region. That’s down from 679 the previous week. The majority of those admitted are not vaccinated, said spokeswoman Vjollca Hysenlika. There were 93 COVID-19 positive patients being treated at Tampa General Hospital as of Friday, 43 fewer than one week ago. That includes 25 patients in intensive care. AdventHealth reported 290 COVID-19 patients in hospitals across the seven counties in its West Florida Division. That’s down from 460 as of Feb. 1. The hospital firm announced that, effective Monday, normal visitation rules will resume at six of its Tampa Bay hospitals. Patients had been restricted to one visitor a day since Jan. 17 in response to omicron. Officials at Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital reported this week that they have only just begun to see a decline in the number of patients testing positive for COVID-19. In January, the hospital saw roughly 930 children who tested positive for the virus, the highest monthly number since the start of the pandemic, said spokesperson Ashley Roberts. That led the St. Petersburg hospital to open a second unit for COVID-19 patients. Many of those admitted were age 4 and under, the age group that remains ineligible to receive the vaccine. Both Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna are developing a vaccine for those ages but parents anxious to get their young children immunized may have to wait several weeks or longer. Pfizer has postponed its application to the Food and Drug Administration to approve a reduced dosage of its two-shot vaccine for children ages 6 months to 4 years, reports NBC News. The company reported in December that trials of children ages 2 to 4 who were given two doses had not produced a sufficiently strong immune response. The company plans to instead submit data on its clinical trial on the effectiveness of three doses. There are 18 million children in the U.S. ages 4 and under who remain ineligible to get vaccinated. Moderna is expected to report data from its vaccine trial in March. • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for eligible recipients are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your ZIP code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • More coronavirus coverage OMICRON VARIANT: Omicron changed what we know about COVID. Here’s the latest on how the infectious COVID-19 variant affects masks, vaccines, boosters and quarantining. KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? Here’s the answers to your questions. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.