The big story: Back in September, the University of South Florida Board of Trustees named attorney Rhea Law as the school’s interim president. Law, who stepped in as Steve Currall exited, “will not apply for the permanent president position,” the university announced. Fast forward five months, with the trustees in the middle of their national search, and see how that has changed. The firm conducting the search confirmed that Law has applied for the post after all. University officials said her decision did not impact her interim contract. It remains to be seen whether the trustees will welcome Law — much as Broward County School Board members did earlier this month to interim superintendent Vickie Cartwright, who also vowed not to pursue that job permanently — or look elsewhere. Read on for the story. Also at USF ... A fraternity is under investigation over accusations of an antisemitic initiation activity. Tallahassee action It’s official. Dr. Joseph Ladapo is Florida’s confirmed surgeon general. The vote fell along party lines. The Senate Rules Committee was scheduled to take up a controversial House bill on school board term limits and book challenges. It temporarily removed the bill from consideration at the request of Education Committee chairman Joe Gruters, the News Service of Florida reports. The move toward a financial literacy course graduation requirement continued to advance. The House Education and Employment Committee unanimously backed the measure on Wednesday, Florida Politics reports. The Senate postponed action on its similar measure, the News Service of Florida reports. A bill to shift student testing toward progress monitoring passed its final House committee. Several teachers spoke against the proposal, saying it adds rather than eliminates testing, Florida Politics reports. The full House is poised to pass a measure limiting the scope of lessons about race to the approved curriculum. Black parents and students say they feel their history is under attack, the Washington Post reports. Today in Tallahassee ... The full House meets at 10:30 a.m., with education bills regarding gender lessons (HB 1557), race lessons (HB 7) and school safety (HB 1421) available for third and final consideration. • The Senate Appropriations Committee is scheduled to meet all day, starting at 9 a.m. It has bills relating to charter schools (SB 754), university textbooks (SB 7044) and local government tax referenda (SB 1194) up for consideration. Hot topics Learning gaps: Brevard County school district officials said students’ pandemic learning gaps are improving, but some areas still need more attention, Florida Today reports. Book bans: Several Tampa Bay area school districts have received community complaints about titles on their shelves. Not all district officials are supporting the requests, WUSF reports. Superintendent turnover: A majority of Volusia County School Board members said they can’t decide whether to extend superintendent Scott Fritz’s contract, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. • The Lake Wales charter school system chose a Mississippi educator to be its new superintendent after a controversial selection process, the Ledger reports. Mask mandates: Citing a reduction in positive virus cases, the Orange County school district announced it would make masks voluntary for adults beginning Monday, WKMG reports. It already had an optional policy for students. Other school news The Hillsborough County School Board approved five charter school renewals. Board members raised questions about the recommendation to retain one F-rated school, but agreed to give the school time to improve. Home schooling grew during the pandemic. Many Santa Rosa and Escambia county parents say they have no intention of sending their children back to campus, the Pensacola News-Journal reports. The Palm Beach County school district can’t fill all its police department vacancies. Rank and file officers are asking Gov. Ron DeSantis to order a merger of their department with the Sheriff’s Office, WPBF reports. The United Teachers of Dade had a leadership election. The incumbents won, the Miami Herald reports. From the police blotter ... A Pasco County former substitute teacher was arrested on allegations of molesting two elementary school girls, WFTS reports. • A Palm Beach County high school volunteer cheerleading coach was arrested on accusations of an inappropriate relationship with a student, the Palm Beach Post reports. • A Marion County resident was arrested after an altercation at a School Board meeting, WCJB reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... How about an underwater manatee cam from Blue Springs State Park in Volusia County? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.