CLEARWATER — When three vacancies came open on the seven-member Community Development Board this year, neighborhood advocates saw it as a chance for reform. The Clearwater Neighborhoods Coalition has pushed the City Council to add environmentalists and resident advocates to the board, which approves certain aspects of development projects and advises the council on others. They have said recent controversial approvals validate the perception that ordinary residents don’t stand a chance against well-financed developers who can hire experts and attorneys to make their cases. But after considering 13 candidates on Thursday, a City Council majority voted to keep the makeup of the board largely status quo. Council member Kathleen Beckman’s motion to appoint Bill Jonson, the neighborhoods coalition vice president and four-term former council member, failed in a 3-2 vote, with council member Mark Bunker supporting her. Then Beckman recommended Paul Bouffard, a retired Environmental Protection Agency agent who investigated environmental crimes. That failed again with only Beckman and Bunker in support. Instead, the council voted 4-1 to appoint Andrew Caudell, vice president of D-Mar General Contracting, with Bunker in opposition; 4-1 to appoint Bruce Rector, corporate general counsel for Sports Facilities Companies with Beckman in opposition; and 5-0 to appoint Aubrey Haudricourt, an electrical engineer with McKim & Creed. “I want people sitting on that panel that understand our code, understand all the regulations, understand construction, understand zoning and are going to make a determination as they are required based on the rule of law, not based on ‘well, I just don’t like it,’” council member Hoyt Hamilton said before the vote. Planning and Development Director Gina Clayton previously said staff was looking for applicants with similar backgrounds to the three members leaving the board: an architect, engineer and attorney. Clayton said if the council wants more laypersons or neighborhood advocates as members, they should change the code. The code states the council should seek community development board members with diverse economic, social and professional representation and shall include people experienced in fields of “architecture, planning, landscape architecture, engineering, construction, planning and land use law and real estate.” But there was no appetite for such a reform from most of the council. Mayor Frank Hibbard said the city has been hearing complaints about the same handful of controversial projects in the last few years. The Community Development Board in September approved a 60-room hotel on Clearwater Beach with flexibility for its 80-foot height. In 2019 it approved a seven-story condo on Edgewater Drive amid one- and two-story homes. And in 2018 it approved a storage unit in the Skycrest neighborhood where the code didn’t allow one. All projects drew ire from surrounding neighborhoods. But considering the board hears nearly 40 applications a year, Hibbard said it’s “a false narrative” that Clearwater has a systemic problem. He said all board members are required to live in the city limits — so the developers, architects and other professional appointments live in the neighborhoods, meaning they care about quality of life. “I get a little bit uncomfortable when we keep talking about the same cases over and over and say everything is broken,” Hibbard said. “I don’t think it is. I think there’s always going to be cases that people aren’t going to like.” In light of Thursday’s appointments, neighborhoods coalition President Carl Schrader said recent development conflicts have been “so egregious” that the group will keep pushing, especially for more environmental expertise on the board. In the next few months, the coalition expects to present the council with a “neighborhood bill of rights.” The draft initiative asks the city to notify homeowners associations of applications for land use changes within 10 days of submission to the city. Currently, the city provides notices of Community Development Board hearings to residents within 200 feet of a project, and any neighborhood association, no less than 10 days before a hearing on an application takes place. It also calls for the city to schedule meetings between homeowner associations and development applicants for residents to ask questions or voice concerns and suggestions. Council member David Allbritton said he doesn’t think the makeup of the Community Development Board should change because “you have to be familiar with land use and how things work in order to make your decisions.” He said he’s open to other changes, like giving neighborhoods more notice of hearings before a vote takes place but that he wasn’t willing to make a motion for that on Thursday because “we have to have more discussion and talk about it.” Beckman reiterated the need for more neighborhood advocates to bring a resident-centric perspective when reviewing applications. When considering whether to give developers flexibility, for height, setbacks and uses, she said the background of the board members could change outcomes. “I think when we have flexibility and you have a number of people sitting on a board who work in the development profession, I would be a little suspect that they would err in favor of developers,” Beckman said.