After the passage of the bipartisan infrastructure bill, Florida is estimated to receive nearly $198 million to advance the state’s capacity for electric vehicle (EV) charging. Considering that Florida is home to the second-highest number of EVs on the road, this funding is critical to ensuring both current and future EV owners have easy and convenient charging access. However, if Florida doesn’t allocate these funds in a way that prioritizes a competitive charging marketplace and supports private sector investments, expansion will be severely limited. Currently, Florida excels in charging station access in major population centers, but the Florida Legislature has recognized the need to make charging more accessible in rural parts of the state. Even though many EV owners often do most of their charging at home, Floridians traveling across the state or evacuating in an emergency like a major hurricane require charging infrastructure along major transportation corridors and less densely populated areas. Fortunately, many small fueling stops have already taken the initiative to begin installing charging stations in an effort to adapt to a transitioning vehicle market. However, after taking on the immense financial burden of installing a charging station, many business owners are surprised to find additional fees tacked onto their electric bills. These fees are known as demand charges that electric utility companies charge consumers when energy usage spikes above a user’s traditional allotment at any given time. For small businesses, this fee hits hard. Given that their average energy use is relatively low, this means the usage of a typical DC fast-charging station would immediately spike energy use and incur a demand charge. In many cases, these additional fees make it hard for charging station hosts to break even on charging costs, let alone begin recouping the costs associated with the initial installation. Meanwhile, some utility companies continue to wield their monopolistic control over the power grid to corner the market on charging station infrastructure at the disadvantage of their competitors. Utilities are not subject to their own demand charges and therefore can continue to expand and profit from the same charging station installations that they charge their ratepayers an additional fee to enjoy. This issue is not going unnoticed. Florida’s Department of Transportation listed utility demand charges as one of the primary barriers to EV charging station expansion in their “EV Infrastructure Master Plan.” Completed this last summer, Florida’s master plan recommends, alongside other regulatory changes, an update of the utility rate structures to exclude charging stations from being hit with demand charges. As the Department of Transportation prepares to divvy up the funds allotted by the federal government, new regulations must be enacted in conjunction with new investments to ensure money is not wasted subsidizing utilities that also unfairly charge ratepayers to cover the cost of constructing and operating their charging stations. Florida is also not alone in identifying this issue. Alaska’s Regulatory Commission recently agreed to force the state’s utilities to redesign their rate structures to eliminate demand charges on charging stations. Electric vehicles are the future, and Florida needs to be ready to meet the needs of this growing industry with the infrastructure required to support it. While Florida has taken promising steps toward an electrified future, lawmakers and utility regulators must work together to take the necessary steps to promote fair competition in the charging station marketplace. Small businesses are willing to invest in a greener future, but lawmakers must ensure a level playing field to effectively advance charging infrastructure. Jeff Brandes is a St. Petersburg Republican who represents Florida Senate District 24 in Pinellas County.