TAMPA — In accordance with her pre-race custom, Christina Welsh fueled up for Saturday morning’s Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 15-kilometer race with one piece of toast. Then things got toasty. With Tampa’s downtown skyline serving as a backdrop, Welsh conquered sultry conditions — at least by runner’s standards — and a condensed field to win the women’s title in 54 minutes, 43 seconds. Former University of Tampa runner Chantalle Schultz-Rathbun crossed the finish line 75 seconds later (55:58). “I wasn’t really looking for a particular time,” said Welsh, who ran competitively at Stockton University in Galloway Township, N.J., and now resides in St. Petersburg. “I just like coming here. It’s like, local and it’s fun. All the runners I know in the area always come out for this race.” Two years after participants were greeted by sub-40-degree temperatures at the starting line, this year’s field — capped at 4,000 runners per race as a COVID-19 precaution — took off near the Tampa Convention Center amid a mild waft of humidity. Bayshore Boulevard was bereft of a seabreeze as 70-degree temperatures arrived by mid-morning. “I’ve been through scraping ice off the windshield (before the race), I’ve been through thunderstorms, Pittsburgh-like weather,” said Dr. Boyd Yesler, a retired clinical dentist from Sarasota who did his 40th consecutive Gasparilla with several family members Saturday. “I like the heat though, the hotter the better. And most people who come in from out of the country or out of state, they have a tough time. This is just a great day for the race.” A month after placing eighth overall in the women’s field at the Houston Marathon, Welsh, 25, was the only female runner to manage a per-mile pace below six minutes Saturday. As a local resident, the 95-pounder collected a first-prize purse of $2,000. “She definitely brought me through a 10K (personal record), and I was like, ‘I can’t keep holding on,’” said Schultz-Rathbun, who now resides in Colorado Springs, Colo. “But that was incredible. I’m like, ‘Thanks for pulling me through that far.’” Tampa’s Jaime Duran was third (56:47), followed by Spring Hill’s Gabrielle Suver (56:51). Former East Bay High and University of Tampa runner Paige Howard, who won this event in 2018 while two months’ pregnant, was fifth (57:17). “I’m coming back for the half (marathon) tomorrow, so this wasn’t like, an all-out effort,” said Welsh, pursuing a PhD in marine biology at USF. “I want to be a little fresh tomorrow.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls