Imagine if Trump were president Putin’s order causes concern | Feb. 22 Imagine what the present situation on the Russia/Ukraine border would look like if Donald Trump had been re-elected. Without American leadership, NATO would have long since been splintered and unable to present anything like a united front to counter Vladimir Putin’s land grabs in Ukraine and beyond. I imagine that U.S. weapons deliveries to Ukraine would be mired in bureaucratic red tape while Rudy Giuliani held court in a Kiev hotel suite digging up dirt on Hillary Clinton and Hunter Biden. Donald Trump Jr. would be in Russia inking a contract to build Trump Tower Moscow to include a luxury penthouse designated for the head of the Russian klepto/thugocracy. The deal would also include options to build similar structures in Minsk and Kiev, all three with low-priced lease spaces for Ivanka Boutiques and the offices of Kushner Investment Partners. What a difference several million votes make! Fred Kalhammer, Sun City Center Teachers, not tattletales Anger over new tweak for ‘don’t say gay’ bill | Feb. 22 There is an abundance of hypocrisy in the Republican-led state Legislature because the politicians want to stand behind freedoms but not when it comes to being part of the LGBTQ community. Apparently freedom is selective to them since HB 1557 — the “don’t say gay” bill — has the underlying condition that you cannot have the freedom to identify your own gender. By telling teachers to be tattletales, I believe, the proposed tweak of the bill would make many teachers retire early or leave this state because of the bill’s new language. If the Republican Party stands for freedom, then who are they to put teachers in an untenable situation? Jackie Kanner, St. Petersburg Eight years is too long Wife takes stand | Feb. 22 While reading about the Curtis Reeves case for eight years, I am glad to see it finally proceeding. I wonder if the judicial system should be on trial for letting this take eight years to get to a real trial? I do not see the reasons for this delay except for attorneys gaming the system. A retired police captain, who should understand how to defuse situations, pulls his weapon that he carried into a movie theater, and shoots a man, apparently over texting? We can do better to resolve these cases more quickly. Jerry Hansen, Sarasota