WINTER HAVEN — Preschoolers may let out a few squeals as Peppa Pig Theme Park debuts this weekend. The bright and bouncy attraction has been designed for folks age 5 and younger. The attraction, based on a British animated series, features rides, live shows, playgrounds and a splash area for kids. But it has an eye on their grown-ups, too. Peppa Pig Theme Park was created by Merlin Entertainments Group, which also operates the neighboring Legoland Florida attraction. The two parks are separately ticketed. Peppa Pig is built in an area that previously had been used for Legoland parking. The official grand opening is Thursday. Here are five things we noted — without getting our hands too muddy — during Wednesday’s preview. It looks (and sounds) like the TV program “The whole purpose of Peppa Pig Theme Park is to be able to walk into Peppa’s world,” said Nick Miller, director of operations for Legoland Florida Resort and Peppa Pig Theme Park. There’s a statue of Peppa near the entrance, a bunch of primary colors including lots of green grass (and faux grass), rolling hills, duck ponds and interaction with characters, both as walkarounds and as statues. The entire park is Peppa-themed and walled off from the rest of the world, although two Legoland Florida Resort hotels peek over that wall. Upbeat music plays throughout the park, and there are also bird sounds and British voices all around. “The same music that a child would see when they watch the television show is the same music they’re greeted with when they arrive at Peppa Pig Theme Park,” said Rex Jackson, managing director of Legoland Florida Resort and Peppa Pig Theme Park. Coaster gets things started The centerpiece of the park is Daddy Pig’s Roller Coaster, which officials have said is a good “my first coaster” for the young set. Up in the front car is Daddy Pig, who leads the journey around the short track twice. That includes a couple of hills that max out at about 15 feet high, a few tight curves and loops. It wouldn’t be called harrowing, but it could be challenging for select preschoolers. Still, it’s a definite step up from a flat-surface mall choo-choo. The queue for the coaster winds through a replica of Peppa’s house. Inside is a kitchenette, family photos, coat rack, a few chairs and windows that display characters through the magic of video screens. There’s also air-conditioning. More on that later. Other rides are more like modified carnival rides, some with height or water elements to them. A bigger splash area has water from all angles plus deck chairs for folks who desire to stay dry. A favorite of adults at a recent media preview: Grampy Rabbit’s Dinosaur Adventure, which puts riders on a single rail that gallops through dinosaur scenes. Young and old can ride together on it, like almost all of the other Peppa Pig attractions. The stage area has comfort in mind. It’s covered with a shade structure above giant pillows for audience members to lounge on during character performances. Made the shade If building a theme park in a parking lot sounds like a hot idea, literally, then you too can be an attractions executive. The summertime presents temperature challenges found in this part of the country. “We did design a lot of shade into the overall design from the queue line … to a massive shade structure over a playground area and a seating area, as well as dedicated indoor space where Peppa cinema is located, where you can take a break from the heat,” Jackson said. There’s also indoor dining available and Mr. Fox’s Shop, a merchandise area, both with AC. Miller said they studied the patterns of the sun last summer and used that data for placement that would protect play areas, the show stage and spots where employees were likely to be located. “There was a lot of care and attention that went into the design of this for the Central Florida climate,” Jackson said. Souvenir side The smallish souvenir shop features some predictable fare: lunchboxes, dolls, gift shop, toy cars and Peppa’s Ferris wheel toy. More unusual: a cosmetic set for kids (make your own lipstick-on-a-pig joke), a Peppa Pig version of the Chutes and Ladders board game and training pants. Will kids like it? The bottom line is will kids like it? Kelly Hornick, head of marketing and communications and mother of two preschoolers, thinks the park has the right balance between rides and play areas. “When you talk about preschoolers, the 5 and unders, attention spans get in the way of a lot of things, which is why Peppa Pig episodes are only five minutes,” she said. “What you find in a lot of other parks is it is attraction after attraction. And the kids have fatigued from waiting in lines. We also have space for kids to move around and enjoy it all,” she said. For tickets or more information, go to PeppaPigThemePark.com Dewayne Bevil, Orlando Sentinel