Selecting Tampa’s next police chief is feeling more like a politically-themed episode of Keystone Kops. Inexplicably, the mayor and her underlings kept the public, City Council and other interested parties in the dark about the selection process. Now they appear to be flailing as they try to regain control. The latest evidence came late last week when the mayor’s spokesman went on the attack, injecting gender politics into the mess. The move came off as silly and desperate. Earlier this month, Mayor Jane Castor chose Mary O’Connor from a list of three finalists to be the city’s next police chief. Since then, O’Connor has been running the department, the mayor’s office said. The unnecessarily secretive and opaque selection process chafed members of the City Council, who must confirm the mayor’s pick. Last week, it appeared that O’Connor might not get a yes vote from the majority of the seven-member council. The mayor has 90 days after a department head post becomes vacant to appoint a replacement and submit the appointment to the council for confirmation. Given the controversy, council chairperson Orlando Gudes said he didn’t like the idea of O’Connor running the office before the confirmation vote takes place. On Friday, mayor spokesman Adam Smith went low when he should have either taken the high road or kept his mouth shut. He said: “It’s rather bizarre in a strong mayor form of government to suggest that a highly qualified woman selected as police chief by Mayor Jane Castor, who spent 31 years in law enforcement, should wait for seven men to sign off before getting to work.” Smith speaks for the mayor. What he says in his official capacity reflects on her — and there is so much wrong with that quote. It conveniently sidesteps a significant blemish in O’Connor’s record when she was a young officer. After a traffic stop in 1995, she was charged with battery on a law enforcement officer, obstruction and disorderly intoxication after kicking the window of a police car and punching a deputy in the shoulder and chest. She received a second chance and rose through the department, retiring as an assistant chief in 2016. To some, the violent episode is enough to disqualify her from becoming police chief. Plus, the residents of Tampa — you know, the voters, about half of them women — elected those “seven men.” No matter their gender, City Council members have an obligation to confirm or deny the mayor’s selection. It’s literally part of their job, one of the many that voters elected them to do. It’s surprising that Smith — and by extension Mayor Castor — would dismiss such a basic function of the local democratic process. Gender discrimination remains a serious challenge, but this brand of dirty politics only makes it harder to address actual discrimination. If the mayor or her team have evidence that any of the men on the City Council are biased against O’Connor because she is a woman, they should present it publicly. The situation calls for facts and open communication not for innuendos and character assassination. The mayor and her team mishandled the selection process, from not being more open during the search to not ensuring that O’Connor had the needed support on City Council. They have reason to be frustrated, but they only have themselves to blame. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.