Never told how to feel ‘Don’t Say Gay,’ CRT bills advance | Feb. 25 Conservatives are maintaining that some teachers in the public schools are teaching children that they should feel stress or guilt about the actions of preceding generations. I am the product of 13 years of public schools and at least eight years of state universities. Never once in all those years did anyone tell me how I should feel. Did I miss something? Bruce LeBaron, St. Petersburg We can get along DeSantis warns of left ‘wokeness’ | Feb. 25 Not surprisingly, Gov. Ron DeSantis is exacerbating the ongoing polarization between the American liberals and conservatives. As reported in the Times, he said that the left’s goal is to “marginalize the conservative half of the country.” While he likely has higher office aspirations, the governor is doing a huge disservice to Floridians and the rest of America by exploiting the current divide in the United States amid global shocks of war, a pandemic and climate change. I have conservative colleagues, friends and family who see many of our problems in a different light than I do. Yet, we are not at each other’s throats or is one side trying the silence the others. More importantly, many of us are looking to understand each other’s perspectives and desperately hoping that our leaders will seek compromises to move the country forward during these uncertain times. The governor would be wise to pay attention to all of his constituents and not pit us against one another, especially now. David Himmelgreen, Lutz Enough posturing DeSantis warns of left ‘wokeness’ | Feb. 25 Gov. Ron DeSantis seems to become more desperate by the day. Before the Conservative Political Action Conference in Orlando he conjured up the idea that liberals want Republicans to become “second-class citizens.” I’m a liberal, and I want no such thing, nor do I know any liberals who want that. When I look at the policies championed by liberals, I see the effort to help everyone across the board: infrastructure improvements, climate change mitigation, voting rights, universal kindergarten, childcare tax credits, paid family and medical leave, and so much more. When someone like Ron DeSantis has nothing to offer but blind ambition, he disparages, distracts and divides. He seeks only to tear apart, never to heal. Hasn’t the world had enough of posturing, power-hungry people of late? I know I have. Karen Booher, St. Petersburg