TAMPA — The Tampa City Council won’t be voting on Mayor Jane Castor’s police chief appointment during its meeting on Thursday, but the council’s leader has asked Castor’s chief of staff to talk about the issue. Council Chairperson Orlando Gudes asked Castor’s chief of staff John Bennett “to discuss the matter of the Mayor’s appointment of the Police Chief” during the time allotted for Bennett to provide updates from the administration, according to a memo to council members from council attorney Martin Shelby. Gudes has also asked city attorney Gina Grimes to appear “to answer legal questions regarding the process,” according to the memo. “This will provide an opportunity for City Council to ask questions and clarify the matter for the public,” the memo says. Castor announced on Feb. 8 that she had selected Mary O’Connor from three finalists, including interim Chief Ruben “Butch” Delgado. O’Connor retired from the department as an assistant chief in 2016 and has been working as a consultant and trainer since then. Castor said Delgado will serve as one of O’Connor’s two assistant chiefs. The city’s charter requires at least four of the City Council’s seven members to vote to confirm the mayor’s selection. The charter states that the mayor has 90 days after a department head post becomes vacant to appoint a replacement and submit the appointment to the council for confirmation. The council then has 15 days to confirm or reject the appointment. If the council takes no action in that time, the appointment is confirmed. Thursday’s meeting, the first regular meeting since Castor’s Feb. 8 announcement, seemed like a likely date for the vote to happen. In a statement responding to questions from the Tampa Bay Times, Castor spokesman Adam Smith said the vote “should be on next week’s agenda.” “The administration never asked the confirmation to be on this week’s agenda because there is no rush and we wanted every council member to meet Chief O’Connor before scheduling the council meeting,” Smith said. “The council has 90 days to confirm the appointment since the vacancy occurred, which was Feb. 8.” The Times called Gudes earlier Wednesday to ask about whether O’Connor’s appointment would be included on the agenda and he referred a reporter to Shelby’s memo. Castor’s decision to choose O’Connor has puzzled and disappointed members of some key constituencies, and City Council members said they were also getting negative feedback. Members of the city’s Hispanic community wondered why Castor would forgo the chance to pick Delgado, a well-liked product of West Tampa whose appointment would help address a dearth of Hispanic city department heads. Members of the Black community have concerns that O’Connor was a high-ranking leader in the department when it disproportionately ticketed Black bicyclists. And the Tampa Police Benevolent Association, the police union, supported Delgado and said it was disappointed in the pick. Community members have voiced concerns about O’Connor’s arrest as a rookie officer in 1995 on multiple charges, including battery of a law enforcement, after she struck a deputy in the chest during a traffic stop. Council members including Gudes have said that issue has come up as a point of concern among constituents. Council member Joe Citro, who has not returned messages from the Times, told Spectrum BayNews 9 that, “I don’t think I can confirm her.” Citro told the station that Delgado has been doing a good job and that morale in the department is high. Other council members told the Times in recent days that they had met with O’Connor or were working to schedule a meeting with her and were keeping an open mind about her appointment. “This is obviously an issue where all i’s have to be dotted and t’s have to be crossed in regard to what the charter dictates, so it’s important to make sure we’re all on the same page,” council member Luis Viera said Wednesday after receiving Shelby’s memo.