TAMPA — South Tampa residents have a well-earned reputation for civic activism. And Tampa Mayor Jane Castor has recently launched a monthly coffee tour to engage with residents where they live. On Wednesday, the second stop of the mayor’s citywide engagement effort got a jolt of South Tampa passion as the mayor mingled, briefly spoke, then listened to a crowd ready with reams of printouts, blown-up pictures on poster board and plenty of questions. In the dining area of a McDonald’s on Manhattan Avenue just north of Gandy Boulevard, residents peppered Castor for about 35 minutes about what was on their minds: affordable housing, flooding and what to do about problems that state lawmakers have plucked from city control. Castor listened sympathetically to complaints about cars speeding through crosswalks, 5G installations popping up in green spaces and the cutting down of grand trees. She reminded the crowd that some things — where 5G is placed, how trees are cut — have been taken out of the city’s hands by state lawmakers. “We had a very robust tree ordinance. We got it cut out from under us by the state,” Castor said about the city’s tree ordinance that was gutted by a state law in 2019, a week after it was approved. The mayor said she’s committed to better use of the millions paid into the city’s tree fund by developers who cut down trees. That fund “has not been spent as rigorously as it should have been,” Castor said, promising better oversight. She also announced a policy change, spending millions in tree fund money to plant trees in parks and green spaces. And the city is going after the licenses of arborists who abuse the new state law that allows grand trees to be cut down if an arborist or landscape architect signs off that the tree presents a danger. Affordable housing was brought up more than once. One woman said that a home health care worker she knows has been unable to find a place to live because of the rapid rise in rental prices. Castor said city officials have looked into rent stabilization measures — a measure recently shot down across the bay in St. Petersburg — but “the answer boils down to supply and demand.” The mayor said she is encouraging residential developers to build affordable or workforce housing. “It makes good business sense to include workforce and affordable housing in all of our development,” she said. The city is also looking at amending land-use and zoning regulations to allow people to build “mother-in-law” cottages on their properties, she said. “We know it’s not going to happen overnight,” Castor said. Several Sunset Park residents complained that city officials hadn’t been responsive to their concerns about a stormwater project in their neighborhood that would line a canal with what they described as sea walls. Mobility director Vik Bhide apologized for not having met in person with residents and announced that the city was pausing the project while it gathers more data and community input. The struggle is to balance neighborhood concerns against environmental risks prompted by climate change, which exacerbates South Tampa’s already chronic flooding problems, Bhide said. Castor said she expects her staff to engage with residents and come up with innovative solutions to their problems, describing her philosophy of addressing residents’ concerns as a “can-do attitude.” Castor started her coffee conversations in January at Arco Iris, a Cuban restaurant in West Tampa. She’ll visit North Tampa and East Tampa in the coming months, her staff said.