We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “Rick Scott’s Plan to Save America Is an Unhinged, Right-Wing Fever Dream,” by Inae Oh in Mother Jones. The context, from the author: The most frightening part? It’s actually pretty normal for the GOP. The excerpt: If you’re searching for a document that could succinctly sum up where the Republican party stands today, look no further than the pamphlet unveiled on Monday by Rick Scott. In dog whistles and codewords, the 31-page agenda outlines what Republicans, according to Scott, should prioritize should they win back Congress. Dubbed the plan to “rescue America,” it plays the hits: a declaration that there are only two genders, a potentially unconstitutional mandate that all kids stand for the Pledge of Allegiance, charter school lust, anti-CRT pontification, bring back the cops hysteria and the proposal that all federal laws must “sunset” after five years — and then have to be passed again if they’re still in favor of it. Scott also wants to restart the construction of the U.S.-Mexico border wall and name it after, you guessed it, Donald Trump. From “The Republican War on Local Government,” by Matt Ford in The New Republic. The context, from the author: The GOP is increasingly backing the use of violent rhetoric against school and election officials. The excerpt: There are tens of millions of Americans who identify as conservative, and thankfully, most of them are not phoning violent threats to their local school board or trying to bully election officials into resigning. But enough of them are doing that to cause serious problems. I’ve written before about how there’s a deep and sustained current in the American political right that valorizes political violence, casting their foes as would-be tyrants and arguing that the Second Amendment gives them the right to kill cops and elected officials. My worst fear is that eventually someone (or many someones) will take these threats and rhetoric to their logical conclusion, that some local school official or poll worker will suffer for it, and that there will be no going back. From “Poverty Is a Choice — That the U.S. Government Is Making,” by Luke Savage in Jacobin. The context, from the author: The child poverty rate has exploded, with over 3.7 million children sinking below the poverty line thanks to the expiration of Joe Biden’s Child Tax Credit program. The disaster proves that poverty in a rich country is a choice its government makes. The excerpt: Though decades of political rhetoric and social policy hokum from various think tanks has tried to muddy the waters around poverty, the cause here is both direct and undeniable. Between last July and last December, the Internal Revenue Service sent out billions in economic relief to families under the Child Tax Credit program passed by Congress in March. The program, which sent payments worth $250 a month for children ages 6 through 17 and $300 a month for children younger than 6, represented an experiment in direct government cash transfer on a grand scale. ... While short-lived, the program’s outcomes were swift and immediately measurable. ... The Child Tax Credit kept millions of children out of poverty every month that it remained on the books. ... All told, the initial passage and subsequent expiration of the Child Tax Credit is a case study in the ease and speed with which poverty can be cut through government programs. FROM THE RIGHT From “Taft’s Revenge,” by Kevin D. Williamson in The National Review. The context, from the author: Ukraine need not be governed by angels nor situated on the border of the United States to have a legitimate claim on Washington’s attention. The excerpt: You conduct diplomacy with the army you have, and with the allies you have, and with the armies and capabilities they have. A forward-looking statesman might look to change some or all of those in his nation’s favor, but we Americans do not have very many of those in our employ just at the moment. And with the neo-Taftian tendency ascendent in the Republican Party (and to a lesser extent in the Democratic Party), it is likely that our alliances will be weaker in the near future — meaning in our short-term confrontation with Russia and our long-term competition with China — than they were during the Cold War. The less our allies can rely on us, the less we can rely on them, and a general retreat on Washington’s part will be mirrored in capitals around the world. From “Is The Battle Against The Educational Establishment Reaching A Tipping Point?” by Robert Busek in The Federalist. The context from the author: It’s no secret that teachers’ unions and other education organizations are overwhelmingly leftist in both culture and politics. Less well-known, however, is the extent to which these organizations have financially supported their government allies and what they expect in return. The excerpt: COVID-19 may indeed rewrite the educational playbook in America, but not in the way the educrats hoped. The number of homeschooling families in the country has tripled since 2019, bringing the once distrusted practice into the mainstream. Support for parental rights in education, especially as regards curriculum, is growing across the board. From “The Mask Comes Off,” by Charlie Sykes in The Bulwark. The context, from the author: The mask is off of Vladimir Putin. The international gangster is behaving like an international gangster. The excerpt: No euphemisms can hide the fact that Putin has launched a war of aggression. In real time, we are also seeing the full, raw power of kinetic disinformation in the hands of an unhinged autocrat. We knew who he was. Putin told us he was a gangster long ago, but five U.S. administrations — of both parties — and much of the West have clung to a series of delusions. Now the delusions are all shattered.