The 7 percent inflation rate in the United States has grabbed the headlines and made life harder for workers whose pay raises didn’t keep up. It is especially difficult for people shopping for a car or commuting long distances because of the meteoric rise in the price of gas. Not to mention the rise in food prices. Part of this increase is on President Joe Biden for over-stimulating the economy. Economist Larry Summers correctly forecast that inflation would increase because the amount of stimulus was almost three times the size of the output gap — the difference between the actual output of an economy and its potential output. So how much of the inflation was caused by the output gap? In the Eurozone, the United Kingdom and Canada, the amount of stimulus spending was less than the output gap. As you can see in this chart, the inflation rate for those economies was about 5 percent. So, I would estimate that about 2 percentage points of the inflation can be blamed on over-stimulation. Most of the rise is due to bottlenecks in the supply chain and also on some of Donald Trump’s and Biden’s policies. Let me explain why. Before I do, notice that Japan went from deflation — because of a declining population — to slightly positive inflation. We are facing a demographic crisis because of low birth rates. For the first time in the nation’s history, the population growth of the 20 to 64 age group — the workforce age group — has turned negative. Adding fuel to this demographic fire is the great resignation, which is workers quitting to look for better paying and better-quality jobs. A significant part of the great resignation is the great retirement, which is retirement age and near retirement age workers quitting the work force permanently because of the pandemic. The number of people who retired rose much faster than the typical pace during the pandemic. More than three million additional people retired compared with what is typical, a Federal Reserve Bank of Saint Louis analysis found. Adding fuel to this demographic fire is on Trump for halving the quota of immigrants coming to the Unite States from one million to half a million per year. About half of these would be people with college degrees. The Biden administration is reversing this trend by increasing the immigration quota for nurses, because of the critical shortage. More needs to be done to prevent further inflation and economic stagnation in the long run. Trump also raised tariffs on imported goods, believing that it would reduce the balance of payments deficit and bring jobs back to America. As it turns out, it was ineffective. The balance of payments deficit increased during his tenure and there was no discernible change in employment and the cost increase was passed on to consumers. All it has done is add to inflation. To date, Biden has failed to reverse this policy. The other avenue to increase America’s work force is to subsidize childcare so that more women can get back into the workforce. Unfortunately, we are going in the wrong direction. The demise of Biden’s Build Back Better plan killed initiatives such as paid parental leave, more subsidies for childcare and universal prekindergarten. Addressing this problem is good for the overall economy. There’s an immediate need to keep more women from quitting and increasing their participation in the work force because they are finding it difficult to start a family and work a full-time job. There is not much that Biden can do to ease bottlenecks in Asia and here at home. Once the pandemic becomes endemic, we can expect the supply of goods and services to return to normal. Until then we cannot expect inflation to abate by a lot. What we can control is the supply of labor. Remember that a lot of us threw a fit when we saw people from south of the border trying to enter the United States soon after Biden’s inauguration. What if we had vetted some of them and let them enter the country with temporary work visas? The United States would have been better for it. Lastly, some want to end immigration and to ban most imported goods. If that were to happen, workers who make less than $5 per hour in Asia would be replaced by domestic workers who make more than $15 per hour. If you think that 7 percent inflation is bad, you ain’t seen nothing yet. Murad Antia, now retired, taught finance at the Muma College of Business at the University of South Florida.