Burying a loved one is heartrending. No one wants to have to exhume the remains and do it all again. But that is what’s facing several local families caught up through no fault of their own in a dispute involving a local cemetery. Many words come to mind in describing this sorry episode — callous, insensitive — but it also reeks of greed. The story — and resulting lawsuit — begins more than 120 years ago at what was then the Ellis Graveyard, a family cemetery now near Interstate 275 and 54th Avenue N in St. Petersburg. John O’Berry bought the cemetery in 1904, turned it into the public Sunnyside Cemetery, and added a horseshoe shaped gravel path to help visitors access the graves, the Times’ Paul Guzzo reported in a story published this week. When O’Berry’s family members sold the cemetery to Anderson-McQueen Funeral Home in 1985, they included a legal covenant that required the layout of the historic section to remain unchanged. The u-shaped path could not be removed or replaced with concrete, according to the agreement. In 2017, Orlando-based Foundation Partners bought the cemetery and — you guessed it — closed the entrances to the historic section and removed the path. Why? To create 184 more burial plots, according to the judge overseeing the legal dispute. The company sold 82 of the plots, of which 24 are now occupied. Foundation Partners said it could not comment on a case that is in litigation. The company had the temerity to argue to the judge that it was just meeting “consumer demand.” Those darn consumers made us do it, as if profit never entered the equation. That’s a hall-of-fame level distortion. It gets worse. The O’Berry family filed the lawsuit on June 28, 2019, putting the Foundation Partners on notice. At that point, a reasonable person might think a company would stop burying people in the disputed part of the cemetery. They might think of the grief families would suffer if their loved ones had to be dug up. Foundation Partners apparently came to a different conclusion. The company has allowed 12 more people to be buried in that area since September 2020, the Times found. Some of the families whose loved ones are buried in the disputed area wonder why the O’Berry family is so adamant on restoring the path. That’s a natural reaction when faced with having to exhume a family member’s body. But the O’Berrys didn’t break the original contract. They didn’t allow people to keep being buried in a disputed part of the cemetery. They want the legal contract to be upheld — and to honor their ancestor’s original vision for the cemetery. The judge agreed the path should not have been removed and has given the two sides time to find a solution. The O’Berrys’ lawyer left the door open for finding a compromise. There must be a price for blatantly failing to do the right thing. For a start, Foundation Partners should cover all the exhuming and re-burying costs, if it comes to that. And for anyone else with a plot in the disputed area? If it hasn’t already, the company should quickly give a refund to those who request one. There was a contract, it was violated — a bunch of innocent families shouldn’t have to suffer anymore. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.