TAMPA — Christina Welsh woke up in her St. Petersburg home Sunday at 3:30 a.m. and said she felt “terrible.” Her legs were throbbing. She was exhausted. She was wondering if she could, or should, do what she was about to attempt: Compete in the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic half-marathon less than 24 hours after winning the 15K in a blazing 54 minutes, 43 seconds in, well, relatively blazing humid temperatures. “But I pushed ahead,” Welsh said. “I felt had to do it. I love the Gasparilla race because of all my friends here in the running community who participate, and because it’s just an awesome event.” Still, doubts lingered as she stood on the half-marathon starting line in downtown Tampa at 6 a.m. with more than 2,500 runners behind her. “I seriously thought to myself, ‘There is a chance I’m not going to finish this race,’” Welsh said. But the gun sounded and she took off, “still not feeling good.” She trudged through a couple of miles, then once she came back over the bridge to Davis Islands and started her trek down Bayshore Boulevard, she “felt better.” From there Welsh, a 25-year-old who has qualified for the 2024 Olympic Trials marathon, steadily eased into the flow and pulled away, cruising across the finish line in 1:18:54, more than three minutes ahead of the runnerup, 29-year-old Chelsea Barnhill (1:21:58) of Palm City. “I didn’t see (Welsh) at all,” said Barnhill, who last competed in a race in January, a 5K where the temperature was 45 degrees. “(Welsh) was just gone.” Barnhill, who like Welsh is training for marathons — particularly the Boston Marathon on April 18 — was notably impressed with Welsh’s back-to-back victories over the Gasparilla Race Weekend. “That is pretty incredible because today was pretty humid and warm for a distance race,” Barnhill said. “And then to run and win in these conditions, well, that’s just awesome.” Standing by the finish line after the race, Welsh said her legs were hurting again, but added that she was happy she ran and won two races. “Marathons are my main event and I thought (doing the Gasparilla races back-to-back) would be good practice to a run a half-marathon on tired legs,” said Welsh, who ran competitively at Stockton University in Galloway Township, N.J. “Now it’s all good. It’s okay.” On Monday, she said she will probably run 10 or so miles, but at an easy pace. Then through the next few weeks, she’ll keep her training to around 100 miles a week, give or take 15 to 30 miles. “What can I say?” Welsh said. “I love to run. I love to compete. Running is my favorite thing.” Another of the remarkable runs Sunday came from Tampa’s Terri Rejimbal, who at age 53 placed fifth in the women’s race in 1:26:05. Three other women 40 or older finished in the women’s top 25: Jacki Wachtel, New Port Richey, 42, 1:29:11 (11th); Beth Dollas, Amesbury, Mass., 45, 1:29:26 (12th); and Jodi Leung, 40, Brandon, 1:30:49 (14th).