TAMPA — The city will close its two free public COVID-19 testing sites, one on Saturday and the other at the end of the month. The first to close will be the walk-up site at Al Lopez Park, 4602 N Himes Ave. It will shut down at 7 p.m. Saturday. The drive-thru testing site at Al Barnes Park, 3101 E 21st Ave., will close at 7 p.m. on Feb. 26. The city said it will close the testing sites due to “continuing cases rates decreasing and the increased capability of private pharmacies, healthcare providers and home testing kits available to now meet the demand for COVID-19 testing ...” While the omicron wave is receding, the Florida Department of Health reported last week that the state was still averaging more than 18,900 new infections a day. Hillsborough County’s positivity rate was 19.4 percent. Hillsborough County still operates four public testing sites: Rapid antigen tests for home use are also available. The federal government has a website, COVIDTests.gov, that can be used to order up to four at-home tests per residential address delivered via mail. Click here for more information about testing in Hillsborough. • • • How to get tested Tampa Bay: The Times can help you find the free, public COVID-19 testing sites in Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk and Sarasota counties. Florida: The Department of Health has a website that lists testing sites in the state. Some information may be out of date. The U.S.: The Department of Health and Human Services has a website that can help you find a testing site. • • • How to get vaccinated The COVID-19 vaccine for ages 5 and up and booster shots for eligible recipients are being administered at doctors’ offices, clinics, pharmacies, grocery stores and public vaccination sites. Many allow appointments to be booked online. Here’s how to find a site near you: Find a site: Visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination sites in your ZIP code. More help: Call the National COVID-19 Vaccination Assistance Hotline. Phone: 800-232-0233. Help is available in English, Spanish and other languages. TTY: 888-720-7489 Disability Information and Access Line: Call 888-677-1199 or email DIAL@n4a.org. • • • More coronavirus coverage OMICRON VARIANT: Omicron changed what we know about COVID. Here’s the latest on how the infectious COVID-19 variant affects masks, vaccines, boosters and quarantining. KIDS AND VACCINES: Got questions about vaccinating your kid? Here are some answers. BOOSTER SHOTS: Confused about which COVID booster to get? This guide will help. BOOSTER QUESTIONS: Are there side effects? Why do I need it? Here’s the answers to your questions. PROTECTING SENIORS: Here’s how seniors can stay safe from the virus. GET THE DAYSTARTER MORNING UPDATE: Sign up to receive the most up-to-date information. We’re working hard to bring you the latest news on the coronavirus in Florida. This effort takes a lot of resources to gather and update. If you haven’t already subscribed, please consider buying a print or digital subscription.