A record of records problems National Archives wants Trump’s handling of records investigated | Feb. 10 Shredded documents, records with potentially classified material taken by Donald Trump to Mar-a-Lago, papers flushed down the president’s toilet, plans contemplated to seize voting machines, Vice President Mike Pence pressured to violate the Constitution by not certifying the election outcome, Trump calling the Georgia secretary of state to find the exact number of votes needed to reverse the election result in Georgia. And now gaps in the official Oval Office call record from Jan. 6 — reminiscent of the Rose Mary Woods and gaps in the Nixon tapes. Does this sound like a president who has done nothing improper or illegal? Hardly! These facts echo what Roman rhetoricians called an “argument from consequence.” Roman lawyers often asked: Does the accused person’s behavior show signs or consequences of guilt? I anxiously await the January 6 Committee’s final report. Unpacking more fully these facts and many more, a well-documented and clear story will be told. I suspect at least some of the committee’s findings will be referred to the Department of Justice for legal investigation. The only question is: Will Trump once again escape wrongdoing and legal accountability? Richard Cherwitz, Austin, Texas Let’s fight cancer Biden commits to reducing cancer deaths | Feb. 3 I was encouraged to see the Tampa Bay Times’ recent coverage of President Joe Biden’s announcement of his commitment to reignite the fight against cancer, noting how cancer is non-partisan and the need to work across the aisle to reduce its burden. As a breast cancer patient, I couldn’t agree more — or be more excited for such impact at the federal level. The policies mentioned during the president’s address also extend to what can be accomplished here in Florida. The Legislature’s recent budget forecast noting a $4 billion surplus in general revenue is promising as a proposal to increase our state’s financial commitment to our breast cancer screening programs in light of the pandemic circulates the Capitol. For over 20 years, the Mary Brogan Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program has provided uninsured and underinsured individuals across the state access to the screenings they need and hailed support from across both sides of the aisle for its impact. Today, women all over the state are counting on Mary Brogan more than ever to give them a fighting chance against breast cancer — some that might not even know it yet. It’s time we increase funding to levels that meet the severity of the pandemic and the potential rise in eligibility. There’s never been a more critical time to support such a lifesaving program or a more opportune time for lawmakers to work together to do so. LaVita Rodriguez, Riverview The view from San Antonio Rays talks veer toward airport | Feb. 5 As a Tampa Bay Rays fan, I find it frustrating, yet again, to read that new St. Petersburg Mayor Ken Welch stated that “St. Pete is back in the game” for keeping baseball in St. Pete. As a fan on “this side” of the bay, my hope is that the only baseball on “that side” of the bay is spring training sites in Pinellas County and any non-professional ball played there. The result of his meeting on Wednesday will end up being a costly delay in discussions about the eventual permanent, and only reasonable, home for the Rays — in Hillsborough county. As fans, aren’t we all getting tired of this game? Mike McElroy, San Antonio Solar for me but not for thee House offer: extend rooftop solar incentives | Feb. 5 I have solar panels on my house. Whatever unused electricity my system generates goes directly back to the grid. It is then used by other electric customers who pay full retail price for that electricity. The electric companies would have you believe that they’re paying solar system homeowners too much for what cost them nothing and arguably saves them money. All those rooftop systems are sending excess electricity to the grid every month. Instead of having to building more fossil-fuel fired plants, electric companies are now investing in solar panels — just like homeowners have but who must pay a minimum fee to the electric company every month whether they use any electricity from the grid or not. Trying to blame solar system owners for increasing everyone else’s bills is just a deflection. I think that electric companies just want to maximize their revenue any way they can. Moe Loogham, Lutz