DUNEDIN — More than 30 abandoned and rundown water vessels will be taken out of the Intracoastal Waterway and portions of Tampa Bay and disposed of in the coming weeks, according to Pinellas County Sheriff Bob Gualtieri. One of those, a boat called Smooth Sailing, was hoisted out of the water near Josiah Cephas Weaver Park, 1258 Bayshore Blvd., in Dunedin on Monday afternoon. The vessel is just one of many boats that have sat abandoned for more than a year in Pinellas County waterways, Gualtieri said. With the boat in the background, Gualtieri held a press conference Monday to discuss a new Pinellas County process aimed at removing such vessels, which he said are not only unsafe, but an eyesore to the community. Thirty-four boats fit the definition of a derelict vessel in Pinellas County waterways, according to Gualtieri. A derelict boat is a water vessel that an owner has abandoned. Gualtieri called the boats a danger to the public and the environment. About a month ago, Pinellas County established an administrative hearing process meant to expedite the procedure of removing and destroying derelict vessels, Gualtieri said. Once this was done, the Sheriff’s Office began posting notices on abandoned vessels, giving each owner 21 days to come forward to claim their boat. In that 21-day period, the owner can request a hearing. However, if an owner does not request a hearing, the Sheriff’s Office can remove and destroy the vessel. For a majority of the 34 vessels, those 21 days expired a week ago, Gualtieri said, and Smooth Sailing was the first one of the boats to be removed. He said he hopes to have about 17 of the vessels removed from waterways this week. Of the more than 30 notices given out, only one person came forward to claim their boat, Gualtieri said. “Moving forward, we’re going to clean this mess up,” he said. “And we’re not going to let it get back to where it is, and the citizens will see that.” Gualtieri said the Sheriff’s Office is using general funding to pay for removal of the vessels, which has been contracted out to Divecom Marine. The company charges per foot of the boat, so a 25-foot boat would cost about $5,000, Gualtieri said. But it is worth every penny, he added. Pinellas County Commissioner Kathleen Peters spoke after Gualtieri. She thanked Rep. Linda Chaney and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission for helping Pinellas County come up with a solution about how to process a derelict vessel. Peters called the 21-day period critical to get the vessels out of the water — not just because they’re an unsightly, but to protect the county’s environment. “The 21 days is critical for several reasons, not only to give them notice, but to make sure that we can get any sort of contaminates that are dangerous to the environment ... so that the county can go in and clean up any hazard that may be leaching into the water.” Dunedin Mayor Julie Bujalski spoke next, saying her office has received many emails and phone calls about Smooth Sailing. “For us, the Intercostal is a roadway — it’s just a water roadway,” Bujalski said. “So you wouldn’t leave an abandoned car on Alt. 19, and you shouldn’t leave an abandoned boat on this waterway.” David Meadows, a Dunedin resident living steps away from where the boat sat for nearly 1 ½ years, said he’s called the city of Dunedin and the Sheriff’s Office multiple times. Meadows called the vessel’s removal outstanding. Gualtieri called the derelict boats a true public safety issue. Previously, the Sheriff’s Office had tried fining the boats’ owners, he said, but that program didn’t work. The process often was too difficult and too long. “We’re getting a lot more citizen complaints, and we’re trying to be very responsive to those complaints,” Gualtieri said. Another part of the new administrative process allows deputies to cite an at-risk derelict vessel, Gualtieri said. If a vessel receives three citations, the Sheriff’s Office can remove it. Gualtieri stressed that the Sheriff’s Office will continue to address issues with live-aboard vessels, too. In Florida, it is prohibited to live aboard a boat without navigational propulsion.