TAMPA — Chad Cornwell stepped barefoot on a piping hot pool deck. And he didn’t feel a thing. Cornwell — who struggles with diabetic neuropathy, which deadens his nerves — stood there for no more than two minutes while his skin blistered, he said, “to a pulp.” It was June 2019 and Cornwell and his partner of 20 years, Brent Cooper, were on a cruise. The ship’s doctor applied ointments and antibiotics. Cornwell and Cooper took it easy. They were diligent in replacing the dressings. “It never really hurt,” Cornwell said. “But then, well, it never got better. It just kept getting more infected.” In January 2020 his purple pinky toe was amputated, and in April 2021, after countless therapies and medicines, Cornwell, 48, had his right leg amputated below the knee. It was, he said, “surreal,” and “sad,” and “worrisome.” Less than two minutes on a pool deck led to a lifetime of adjustment. “I think my biggest concern was that I didn’t want to be a burden to people,” Cornwell said. “I told Brent in the hospital room after they took my leg, ‘You didn’t sign up for this and I will understand if you want to leave.’” Cooper, 47, said there was no way he was leaving. “I was thinking about what we needed to do to make this work. What adjustments did we need to make?” For the next eight months Cornwell was often in a wheelchair or simply laid up while the wound healed. In January 2022, Cornwell was finally trying out a prosthetic leg, which, Cooper said, “He wore out until it finally broke.” It wasn’t until the last few weeks that Cornwell — who before the burns was jogging 5Ks, hiking, swimming, dancing and playing rugby — has had the benefit of his colorful state-of-the-art prosthetic leg, which he has put to quick use. For starters he joined the Tampa Bay Lightning sled hockey team, which “was scary at first and then nothing but awesome.” He also instilled a staple in his life: Every morning around 6 he walks the quarter-mile courtyard of Newsome High, where for the past eight years he has served as the artistic director for The Wolfpack Theatre. The mornings are quiet and contemplative, full of positive perspective. “I love those moments alone before the day gets started,” he said. “I never used to walk like that before in the mornings. It’s something good that’s come to me.” He has built up to walking well over a mile, and in the process he got an idea: to set the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 5K as a goal. “All I want to do is start and finish,” he said. “And I will finish.” On Saturday — after one hour, 17 minutes— he walked across the 5K finish line next to Cooper, who was pushing a “just in case” wheelchair, which Cornwell used only to sit for a few minutes at each mile. “I’m soooo tired, but I feel good,” said Cornwell, who did say he felt some fluid buildup on his knee. “I made it! That’s all that matters.” What lies ahead? So much. There is his school’s performance of Catch Me If You Can on April 21-23. There are more 5Ks. There are games to play with the sled hockey team. There are meetings with designers to start a clothing line for amputees. There are vacations to take with Cooper, a social studies teacher at Plant City High. “(Cornwell) is an inspiration,” said Brielle Pulli, a senior at Newsome who has worked as an assistant director to Cornwell on several productions, including Catch Me If You Can. “He has taught all of us so much in so many ways. He has taught us, just by how he worked through this, that we should be thankful for every single day of our lives.” Is it still tough at times? “Yes,” Cornwell said, “of course.” That’s why he walks and talks with himself, and he says he always comes back to the idea of, “I have the power to help people. That’s the key. Do things to inspire people. “Doing it for others. ... That’s the best medicine.”