ST. PETERSBURG — Ken Welch sat front and center, holding up his cell phone, recording Melrose Elementary School’s Black History Month celebration. He took in every performance: 60 students singing, stepping, acting, rapping, dancing, telling the story of African-Americans from pre-colonial times to slavery, through the Civil Rights movement to the present day. Welch represented the present. St. Petersburg’s first Black mayor returned to the same cafeteria he once sat in as a Kindergartner and member of Melrose’s last segregated class. Next to him sat an icon of the past: Leon Jackson, last surviving member of the Courageous 12, the group of Black police officers who sued to end racial discrimination in the St. Petersburg Police Department in 1965. Up on stage running the show was the future: Travis Flowers, Melrose’s Mayor of Fifth Grade. “One of my idols has recently made St. Pete history,” Flowers, 11, told the audience. “Not only is he the first Black mayor in the city, he also attended this school, just like me. In him, I see a future version of myself: kind, progressive and educated.” Welch is a regular at the Great American Teach-In and as a mentor at Lakewood High. And in his first Black History Month as mayor, he’s served as the go-to guest and interview for students in his hometown. He carved out time to meet with them. He said it’s a part of the job he dreamed about. “I always envisioned when I would go back and talk to kids as mayor,” he told the Tampa Bay Times. “You know, going back to Melrose, yeah, it’s a full circle.” History in St. Petersburg Raleigh Miller was researching former President Barack Obama for his class project until his mother told him Black history was just made in St. Petersburg. The fourth grader at Madeira Beach Fundamental requested a meeting with the mayor. He worked with his classmates to come up with questions for the interview: When did you know you wanted to be mayor? Why did you want to become mayor? What is your favorite part? Is it an easy job? Not only did Welch welcome him to City Hall, he let Miller interview him from his big leather chair. Miller learned that Welch once wanted to be a rock star and a football player, but that his education prepared him for other things, including a political career. He learned that Welch’s grandfather only had a third-grade education, and that Welch wanted to get into politics because he watched his dad work as a City Council member. “He was really nice and kind,” said Miller, 10. “I like getting to see some of the things in City Hall. I liked hearing the answers to the questions.” Miller’s principal, Chris Ateek, gave credit to Miller and Welch. “Seeking a community member and recognizing this is historic in St. Pete and historic in this community to have the first mayor of color,” Ateek said of Miller. “It’s also exciting that (the mayor) is available and he makes himself available to the community. It’s a win-win on both sides.” Ateek knows Welch from when the mayor’s daughters attended Southside Fundamental Middle and Lakeview Fundamental Elementary, where Ateek was assistant principal and principal, respectively. “I believe that he’s just a good man,” Ateek said. “I always believed he would always be the mayor.” Plan, Prepare and Prayer Melrose went all out for the annual showcase with sound and lights, photography and dashiki skirts for four teachers and principal Donnika Jones. She gave credit to the teachers and students. “They plan it for a month and then this is the performance,” Jones said. “So it’s not just Black history that happens during the month of Black history, right? Black history happens in all the months of school.” A choir sang Wade in the Water and the school’s unity step team did a South African gumboot dance. A group of fifth grade boys re-enacted the Courageous 12′s story, each wearing pressed dress shirts with St. Petersburg Police patches on the sleeves. Jackson stood up mid-performance and shook each boy’s hand. “They should carry it around in different schools, in different places,” he said. “I couldn’t be happier.” Welch closed out the night. He wanted to make sure students stayed on their path to greatness. He warned about the garbage on the Internet and taught them the three Ps: Plan, Prepare and Prayer or Ponder. “It’s ... important that we’ve made history with this election,” he said. “But I’m looking forward to Brother Flowers’ election one day.” “And everybody, I want you all to do more than we’ve done in this generation.”