How do you turn $10 million into $100 million? Get a contract with the city of Tampa. That, at least, is how the price spiked on a project that Tampa officials didn’t bother to put to competitive bid. This sloppy management makes it impossible to tell whether taxpayers got their money’s worth. And it clouds the city’s contracting process in a way that could imperil another mayoral priority. Black leaders from the Tampa Organization of Black Affairs, the local branch of the NAACP, the Urban League and the Corporation to Develop Communities of Tampa recently criticized the bidding process behind a new government complex planned in the heart of the city’s Black community. As the Tampa Bay Times reported Thursday, they complained that minority contractors were unfairly deprived from bidding for work, even as plans grew from a $10 million warehouse demolition project seven years ago to a more than $100 million legacy project to build a city hall annex in East Tampa. The City Center project was awarded to a national construction management firm, DPR, which has an office in Tampa. That firm was initially awarded a much smaller contract in 2015 to demolish a warehouse on the site and come up with plans for the property. An early idea to relocate a handful of city departments there was shelved. But the project resurfaced in 2021, growing into what one city official described as the largest city capital project in decades: 161,000 square feet of space to house workers from 16 city departments. Despite the change in scope, the city decided not to rebid the work. City officials said they followed state law in negotiating a new contract with DPR that was 10 times the value of the original. Officials said they interpreted the statute to allow for a change in “scope,” and that they moved quickly because some affected employees were working out of private offices with leases about to expire. “To me, that doesn’t sound like a bona fide emergency,” said Christopher Atkinson, an assistant professor of public administration at the University of West Florida and an expert on local bidding procedures, who examined the city’s original request for qualification. “That sounds like someone didn’t plan.” Of course this wasn’t an emergency; a hurricane didn’t demolish the water plant, and a sinkhole didn’t swallow City Hall. That’s why the city didn’t declare an emergency, which under Florida law would have relaxed the requirements for obtaining competitive bids. In response to the backlash, Mayor Jane Castor announced Monday the city would hire an advocate to help meet its record goal of including 35 percent participation for Black and minority-owned firms in the $108 million project. DPR has also expanded its diversity efforts and outreach, meeting with contractors and hosting community events to attract minority firms. That’s all well and fine. But the problem here isn’t only minority participation, but the lack of competition for the overall project. It’s ridiculous to assert the scope hadn’t changed. Adding a storage building or additional floor is one thing; enlarging the contract 10-fold is entirely another. Not seeking competitive bids denied taxpayers leverage, potential savings and the facts to make an informed decision. Nobody at City Hall would do this at their own home with their own money. This shortcut could also have long-term implications. Several council members have resisted the city’s proposal to vastly reuse treated wastewater, fearing a similar consultants’ contract is another tool for mission creep and runaway costs. It’d be a shame if the City Center contract soured by association further steps on PURE, the mayor’s water reuse plan, which has great potential. So much for expediency. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.