NEW PORT RICHEY — Despite a strong push from animal advocates, Pasco County commissioners on Tuesday opted to ban sale of rabbits from public places such as flea markets, but stopped short of halting sales at pet stores. The commission decided to go with its staff recommendation to begin the process to prohibit public sale points and require certificates of sourcing for the retail sale of rabbits. In addition, Pasco County Animal Services will provide educational information on rabbit ownership, offer guidance on finding new homes for unwanted rabbits and assist animal welfare organizations in finding solutions to the abandonment of rabbits, such as helping with spaying and neutering animals. Animal Services director Michael Shumate left the door open for additional provisions to protect rabbits. Commissioners said they were more comfortable easing into regulations at his recommendation. Animal advocates sought  the retail ban, similar to the one that Pasco enacted for dogs and cats two years ago. They argued that rabbits are challenging pets and often impulse purchases, especially around Easter. They are easily injured and do not like to be held. They also reproduce rapidly and chew on everything. Others offered statistics indicating that only a small percentage of rabbits adopted survive in a home setting one year after purchase. Some are released into the wild, where many die of starvation. Few find homes in shelters because there are few options for abandoned rabbits and few people wanting to foster them, the advocates argued. Kurtis Marsh, president of the county’s only rabbit rescue, Suncoast House Rabbit Rescue, said people don’t understand how to care for rabbits because of the way they see them when they see they are cared for in a pet store. Rarely do rabbits get sufficient food and water in their cages there and new owners see that as proper care. Animal advocate Renee Rivard, from Manatee County, urged the county to enact the retail ban that chain stores like Pet Smart and Petco did 15 years ago. Orange and Duval counties and Key West have banned retail rabbit sales. She previously told commissioners that there are 45 pet stores in Pasco and 36 of those survive without selling rabbits. Even pet store employees say rabbits don’t make good pets for everyone, she said. In 2020, Pasco County joined more than 50 cities and eight counties in Florida that had already banned retail sales of dogs and cats. The move has been a popular way to choke off business to puppy and kitten mills where breeding animals are sometimes kept in bad conditions and produce offspring with medical problems in the future. Advocates said breeding mills for rabbits have the same problems. In Hillsborough County last month, animal advocates made the same arguments about the need to end retail rabbit sales as they did in Pasco. But, like Pasco, the Hillsborough County Commission did not agree to the ban, focusing instead on better education to potential pet purchasers to steer them away from bunny purchases during the Easter season.