It’s the time of year when we ogres, sitting on our duffs and rapidly losing cardiovascular endurance, place the nachos con queso aside to become autodidacts on elite sports we have never attempted. By this juncture in the 2022 Winter Olympic Games, ogres are proficient in “monobob,” which is not a haircut. We know that curling has rad dad vibes. We know biathlon is cross-country skiing plus rifle shooting, possibly a good skill to develop while hoarding toilet paper and Canadian Gold Maple Leaf coins, just saying. Being an ogre is a major responsibility, especially in these scandal-ridden Beijing games. We schlubs have paused our work as top sources on geopolitical matters and cryptocurrency, instead explaining what a “Euler” is. What is a Euler? I’m glad you asked. I’ve researched this, and by “researched,” I mean Googled “what is that jump thingy” between bites of chewy Chips Ahoy. To my ogre eye, it appeared figure skaters were making a clumsy error inside jump combinations. It’s like when you street park for dinner, but there’s a puddle and you have to launch your body to the curb so your shoes don’t get muddy. That’s a Euler. Turns out, it sets up the next jump. It’s not a mistake! Let’s see, what else? Oh, the scandals. We should back up to 2016, when a whistleblower revealed Russia’s vast state-run doping program. It was real Ocean’s Eleven stuff. For example, these folks passed urine samples through a hole in a wall. Imagine the commitment to pass that much urine back and forth. That much urine. Russia was banned from the games, but not really, because Olympic rules only apply every other Thursday from 2 to 4 p.m. That brings us to now. Kamila Valieva, a gifted 15-year-old Russian skater who blasts off quads like we blast off bags of movie theater butter microwave popcorn, is the favorite for gold. She tested positive for a banned heart medication in December, curiously revealed after she helped Russia win team gold. Now, ogres, put on your monocles! Monday, Olympic officials said Valieva could keep competing, partly because she’s a minor being used by nasty, nasty adults. The women’s short program is Tuesday, and the top skaters advance to the free skate Thursday. If she places, there will be no medals for anyone until her case is resolved. Only later will there be “dignified medal ceremonies.” Can you even? You play fair your whole life, and because notorious cheaters keep getting passes, you have to attend an event in some tragic conference room. I’m picturing overhead panel lights, flickering, maybe with a dead bug. There’s a mixed green salad with a boat of raspberry vinaigrette, a cursed dressing. There’s chicken in broken cream sauce, stale rolls, frozen butter in gold wrappers and a cheesecake sampler. There’s a pitcher of iced tea. Bloated Olympic officials thank the athletes for their patience as the committee worked to confirm the people who cheated actually cheated like the results showed they cheated the first time they cheated. They promise this incident has made the Olympics stronger, and they will enforce rules on Tuesdays from 3 to 5 p.m. as well. Then there’s a slideshow thanking luncheon sponsor, Allstate. If I am, say, U.S. skater Mariah Bell, who finally made it to the games at a geriatric 25, I am ripping into that cheesecake. I’m scooping dinner rolls out of baskets and putting them in my purse. I’m texting Adam Rippon under the table. And I’m running out of there with my medal, like, “See ya never, creeps!” Then, Cabo. So, ogres, this Olympics is another hot mess, but I hope this guide helps. There’s much to come before the games close Sunday, including speed skating, hockey and, blessedly, more curling. Anyone have questions? Euler? Euler? Get Stephanie’s newsletter For weekly bonus content and a look inside columns by Stephanie Hayes, sign up for the free Stephinitely newsletter.