Lost & Found, the winning new memoir by Kathryn Schulz, could just as well have been called Love & Death. Those two universals are its subjects — and so is the “&” between them. Schulz is a staff writer at the New Yorker, where she was a 2016 Pulitzer Prize winner for “The Really Big One,” a nightmare-inducing article about seismic risk in the Pacific Northwest. Much of Lost & Found reads like the best New Yorker stories: erudite and deeply researched, carefully structured and elegantly written. But the book has something those reserved New Yorker stories don’t: the writer’s personal experience. Schulz writes in “Lost,” the first of the book’s three parts, about the death of her father, and in “Found,” the second part, about falling in love with the woman who would become her wife, and she writes about both with deeply felt emotion. She begins by telling the reader she’s always been left cold by euphemisms for death like “passed away” and “gone home,” but there is one that has resonance for her, that she finds herself speaking 10 days after her father’s funeral: “I lost my father.” Why “lost” seems genuine when other words seem hollow intrigues her, and she finds that it’s not really a euphemism at all: “The verb ‘to lose’ has its taproot sunk in sorrow; it is related to the ‘lorn’ in ‘forlorn. It comes from an Old English word meaning ‘to perish.’” The word seems all too appropriate for her experience of her father’s death. Isaac Schulz was the self-made, big-hearted son of immigrants, a lawyer, raconteur and adoring husband and father, a friend who “possessed the gravitational pull of a mid-sized planet.” His daughter writes, “The world was endlessly interesting to him,” and she obviously shares that trait. She explores the idea of loss in depth, moving out from her father’s death to details like the fact that surveys show “each of us misplaces roughly nine objects per day.” She delves into the emotional difference between recovered and unrecovered losses and even takes us to the Valley of Lost Things, a haunting spot in Dot and Tot of Merryland, a lesser-known book by L. Frank Baum, whose most famous work is about finding things: a brain, a heart, some courage and a home. But she always circles back to the raw emotion of the specific loss of her father. He’s in his 70s and has had health issues, so his death is not a surprise. She and her mother and sister spend weeks with him in the ICU and then in hospice. During most of that time, he’s lucid, and everyone can say their goodbyes. But, as anyone who’s been through a similar experience knows, that doesn’t prevent the staggering blow that death deals to survivors. As she writes, “…viewed up close, it is shocking, a whole universe flashing out of existence. I lost my father; my father lost everything.” In the book’s first section, Schulz focuses entirely on loss, never mentioning something else going on in her life in the same time span: falling in love. That’s the subject of “Found.” She has a warm circle of family and friends, but she’s approaching 40 and has had only one serious relationship. In the abstract, she tells us, she longs for love, for permanence and a family of her own. But, she writes, “Although love is one of the most wonderful things any of us can ever hope to find in life, there is no obvious way to look for it.” Instead, it comes looking for her. She’s living in a small town near the Hudson River in New York when she gets an email introduction from a friend to another woman who’s driving from her home in Maryland to a wedding in Vermont. Her route takes her near Schulz’s home, and the mutual friend suggests they meet for lunch. Schulz protests that it’s “not precisely correct to say that I knew right away,” but it’s love at first sight. Not lust (thought that follows soon enough) but a crystalline, all-encompassing focus on the woman that’s like nothing she’s felt before. The lunch lasts most of the afternoon. That night Schulz gets an email from her. They meet again for dinner a week later. By then, Schulz is practically bursting with questions. “To no small extent, falling in love is a state of yearning for information,” she writes. “And that, I suppose, is why my second date with C. lasted nineteen days.” C., as Schulz calls her throughout the book, is Casey Cep, also a New Yorker staff writer and the author of the 2019 book Furious Hours: Murder, Fraud, and the Last Trial of Harper Lee. They come from very different backgrounds: “C. was from the working-class, small-town South, while I was from the moneyed Midwest.” Cep grew up on a farm in Maryland’s rural Eastern Shore, earned a scholarship to Harvard and then went to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. Schulz moves between the giddy, golden feeling of their new love and a cooler perspective on finding it, discoursing on Plato and Dante: “Poor Dante; he found love, but he never got to learn that love is also its own ongoing kind of finding.” She also tells us other stories about finding, like a little boy who sees a meteorite fall from the sky, so close it almost hits him, and then goes back to find it. The book’s third section, “And,” begins with a dramatic set piece, put in motion by another meteorite. This one is much larger, 2 miles wide and weighing a billion tons. When it fell to Earth 35 million years ago, it dug a massive crater. Schulz whisks us through epochs and millennia, ice ages and sea rises, nods to a new kind of primate taking to its hind feet “half a globe away.” The meteorite’s crater fills and lowers countless times until it becomes what we know as the Chesapeake Bay, and Schulz zooms in on the tip of a tiny island in that bay where “one beautiful May afternoon, C. and I got married.” The “And” in the section’s title isn’t just about marriage, though. Schulz writes with insight about how we learn to live with both loss and finding, how joy and sorrow always intertwine. “But the most enduring problem of love,” she writes, “which is also the most enduring problem of life, is how to live with the fact that we will lose it.” Lost & Found: A Memoir By Kathryn Schulz Random House, 256 pages, $27