St. Petersburg’s 3 Daughters Brewing will open a rooftop tasting room in Clearwater Beach later this month, the owners announced Thursday. Owner Mike Harting said the expansion is part of a new partnership with HMC Hospitality Group, the parent company that owns and operates Hooters restaurants and Hoots locations in Tampa and Chicago. The new taproom will open on the rooftop terrace above the Hooters at 381 Mandalay Ave. and boast 220-degree views overlooking Pier 60 and the intracoastal waterways of Clearwater Harbor. It’s the first joint venture for the two businesses and Harting says there’s a possibility of more collaborations in the future. “This is our first one — we’re going to see how it goes from there,” he said. The popular craft brewery, which first opened in 2013 in St. Petersburg’s Warehouse Arts District, is among one of the more widely known names in Florida’s craft beer industry. Harting, who is also the president of the Florida Brewers Guild, said plans for the expansion have been in place since before the pandemic. He credited the brewery’s record-breaking year (the company reported 33 percent growth in 2021) as pivotal in bringing the project to fruition. The company also operates a bar at the FIT2RUN store in Bradenton and is launching another one inside the St. Pete-Clearwater International Airport later this year. The new brewery will occupy roughly a 2,500-square-foot space that includes indoor seating and an outdoor patio area. It will function as both a brewing facility, tasting room and restaurant and will operate independently from the Hooters downstairs. Harting said that fans of the brand will most likely be able to find all of the brewery’s most popular beers, hard seltzers and ciders at the new location but that an on-site brewing system and a separate team of brewers means the Clearwater Beach spot will feature several distinct creations. Once open, the taproom will host weekly events, live music and a daily “Beach Bite” menu. Harting said he hopes to be open by the end of February — just in time for spring break.