TAMPA — Lightning forward Corey Perry knows how to sniff out a crease like a shark. He’s quiet, he’s slick, and he sneaks up on the best of them. Playing for the first time in more than a week, Tampa Bay knew it wasn’t going to be an easy night Wednesday against Edmonton. But Perry’s skill was brought to the forefront in a special way in the Lightning’s 5-3 win at Amalie Arena. With less than five minutes to play in the second period and the Lightning  (33-11-6) on a power play with a 3-1 lead, attention was on the puck as it went into the corner. Perry stayed to the outside of the crowd pursuing it, an arm’s length away from the goal. When the other players finally fished out the puck, it landed on the stick of Lightning defenseman Mikhail Sergachev, prompting him to take a one-timer toward goalie Mike Smith. As the puck moved toward the net, Perry stepped into the crease, deflected it off his stick and put it top shelf past Smith for what was eventually the winning goal. Just as important, it was career goal No. 400 for Perry. “It’s a great personal accomplishment,” said Perry, 36 and in his 17th season. “But I have to give a lot of credit to the guys I’ve played with in the past, the guys here. It’s exciting. I never thought growing up that I’d hit 400 goals in the NHL, but I’m pretty excited and happy right now.” It was the perfect scenario for the veteran’s career mark — playing at home, having his family in the stands and scoring from the place from which he scored many of the 399 goals that came before. “The way it happened and the way it went in, obviously being a foot inside the crease or wherever it is, it’s pretty fitting,” Perry said, chuckling. In the third period, the Lightning played a celebration video for Perry. He watched the video board intently leaning against the Lightning bench, watching clip after clip of some of his best moments on the ice. “I had no idea it was even happening,” Perry said. “There’s so many great moments that have happened over my career, and there’s a lot of things that have stood out, but I have to give a lot of credit to the guys I’ve played with, especially Ryan Getzlaf coming in. We came together in Anaheim and played 14 years together, so he’s the No. 1 on the list, for sure.” Perry has always been known as a scorer, but it wasn’t until this season, after he joined Tampa Bay in free agency, that Lightning coach Jon Cooper realized just how good of a scorer the 2010-11 Hart Trophy and Maurice Richard Trophy winner is. “He is a slick, sneaky, skilled player in the blue paint and all around there,” Cooper said. “He’s just oozing with hockey sense all around the net there. … To get to see him up close, it’s impressive. He knows what he’s doing out there.” In all but two seasons, Perry has played in at least 56 games. He has nine hat tricks, 11 20-goal-plus seasons and 15 10-goal-plus seasons. He has 14 goals this season. With No. 400, Perry became the 103rd player (ninth active) to reach the milestone. Coincidentally, his first career goal was also against the Oilers (Oct. 10, 2005, in his third game with the Ducks). He’s the fifth player in league history to score goal No. 1 and goal No. 400 against the same team. “I’m proud of Corey,” said Lightning forward Pat Maroon, who started his career with Perry in Anaheim and also got an assist on No. 400. “I know it took him longer than he expected, but I’m just really super proud of him. I mean, 400 goals, it’s freaking amazing. A lot of people can’t say they score 400 goals in this league.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.