TAMPA — Hillsborough County Commissioner Ken Hagan calls the Bearss Groves produce stand an independent small business and wonderful community asset. The county’s code enforcement team calls it something else — an illegal retail operation. In a legal battle that has stretched for four years and $160,000 in fines, Hagan went to bat for the produce stand owner Wednesday to try to suspend and ultimately forgive the $200-a-day penalties that began in 2018. No sale, advised the county attorney’s office. State law and the county ordinance do not allow the fines to be reduced until the property is in compliance with local zoning and land use rules. The issue landed before commissioners after Bearss Groves owners, through social media, said they faced going out of business because of the county’s code enforcement actions. The store’s fans sent more than 1,000 emails to commissioners asking them to avert a potential closure. “No one is shutting down Bearss Groves. We’re not anywhere near that,” said Commissioner Pat Kemp. Hillsborough County’s code enforcement officers said in 2018 the roadside stand at 14316 Lake Magdalene Blvd. never got the permission it needed to operate, including a development plan and permits for its structures. Owner Barry Lawrance, who bought Bearss Groves in 2008, said his business is part of a legitimate agricultural operation protected by state law and exempt from the county rules. Lawrance repeated the contention Wednesday and also said the county’s code enforcement action conflicted with the county’s own land plan that protects “the economic viability of agricultural activities.” “I don’t believe fining a small farm for following state agricultural laws is in line with the county’s comprehensive plan,” Lawrance told commissioners. “Small farms and businesses already have an uphill battle. Please help us stop the fines and ultimately have them rescinded.” The daily fines kept accumulating after Lawrance took his dispute to court. But his challenges to the Hillsborough Property Appraiser’s Office, the Value Adjustment Board, a special magistrate, Hillsborough Circuit Court and finally the 2nd District Court of Appeal all affirmed the county’s position. The store is not considered a bona fide agricultural operation by the county because the 3,000-foot store sells more than fresh fruit and vegetables and sits on land that does not have a greenbelt exemption as farmland. “In the letter of law, they may not 100 percent comply, but to me this is where the law and common sense may not be aligned,” Hagan said in an interview. Hagan said he lives about a half-mile from the store. He said he and his family are customers, and he purchased his Christmas tree there in 2021. Commissioners eventually voted unanimously to have their staff review agricultural regulations for potential changes to the land development code; work with Lawrance to try to bring the business into compliance with county rules; and to send a letter to the special magistrate about Lawrance’s efforts for future consideration of reducing the fines. After the meeting, Lawrance said he was optimistic about the possible outcome. “Ultimately, I still have a $160,000 lien on my property,” Lawrance said. “But, I’m optimistic that people in the positions they’re in, are willing to help us.” The commissioners’ vote, he said “showed county administration they want this to be resolved. I just hope it can be resolved.”