One adult managing 154 kids? That’s a recipe for disaster. Yet it also was the caseload for one manager in Hillsborough County’s foster care system. The child safety net in Hillsborough is buckling under the weight, and the state has a core obligation to provide more resources. Case managers are like air traffic controllers for foster children. They ensure that foster kids attend school, receive counseling and medical treatment and navigate the thicket of court hearings and family drama. As the Tampa Bay Times’ Christopher O’Donnell reported recently, the job’s a heavy burden, which is why the Child Welfare League of America recommends that managers oversee no more than 17 cases at a time. But case managers in Hillsborough are overburdened with dozens of cases. An internal report reviewed by the Times showed that LifeStream Behavioral Center, one of four nonprofits that provides case managers to Hillsborough’s primary foster care agency Eckerd Connects, had seven employees managing 80 or more children and four responsible for at least 90. One caseworker juggled 154 foster kids. If that employee worked 10-hour days, they would only have 80 minutes a month to check on each child — hardly enough time to conduct home visits, go to court and check on their well-being. Hillsborough has only 112 case managers overseeing more than 3,100 children who are either in foster care, staying with relatives or being supervised because of concerns about abuse or neglect, according to Eckerd Connects. LifeStream is budgeted to hire 48 case managers but had only 13 on staff as of Feb. 7, records show. “It’s extraordinarily concerning and, frankly, dangerous for children in Hillsborough County,” said Robin Rosenberg, deputy director of Florida’s Children First, an advocacy organization. Foster agencies statewide are struggling to recruit and retain case managers. But Hillsborough’s problem is acute, and the most vulnerable children pay the price. Only one-fourth of children entering foster care in Hillsborough leave within a year, the second-lowest rate among Florida’s 19 child welfare circuits, well below the state’s target of 40 percent. And case managers juggling too many kids and too little time means that more children are at risk of languishing within the system. With starting pay for this demanding, high-stress job averaging about $38,000 annually statewide, it’s no surprise that Hillsborough’s turnover rate for case managers was 138 percent this past year. In other words, many caseworkers here have both the least experience and the heaviest caseloads. Advocates say they are heartened by a preliminary budget proposal in the Florida House that includes an additional $127 million for child welfare, which could help Hillsborough and other high-burdened counties hire additional case managers. But Hillsborough faces an additional problem. The state needs a new local provider in place by June 30 when Eckerd Connects’ contract expires. And a Las Vegas nonprofit that state officials rejected to run foster care in Pinellas and Pasco counties is the only bidder for Hillsborough’s $87 million child welfare contract. The state has several options, from signing a deal with WestCare to reaching out to other vendors or working with Hillsborough’s Community Alliance to directly contract with service providers. The alliance is a state-mandated body of child welfare stakeholders that includes representatives from county government, the school board, the sheriff’s office, dependency courts and the Children’s Board of Hillsborough County. The state Department of Children and Families said it hopes to make a decision by mid-March. This decision should be shaped by one goal — to address the root causes of Hillsborough’s high demand for foster care. Additional case managers, of course, will help. But what’s causing this widespread dysfunction in the home? What ideas offer better outcomes than outside placement? What would help families better stabilize their situations? And how can the state better support local providers working tirelessly on the front lines? Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.