National Pizza Day is Wednesday. Here’s a list of ways you can participate without taking a bite out of your budget. BJ’s Restaurant and Brewhouse: Get half off any large deep-dish or tavern-cut pizza. Available for takeout or delivery only when ordered online at bjsrestaurants.com Feb. 8-13. Use promo code “HALFOFF” at checkout. For a location near you, go to bjsrestaurants.com. Domino’s: The mix-and-match deal lets you pick two or more items for $5.99 each. A carryout deal features any three-topping pizza or the new dips and twists for $7.99 each. To order or find a location near you, go to dominos.com. Chuck E. Cheese: Download the new Chuck E. Cheese app to your mobile device and get 500 free e-tickets and meal deals. For a location near you, go to locations.chuckecheese.com. Little Caesars: Get a Hot-N-Ready to-go Batman Calzony for $7.99 from 4 to 8 p.m. It’s eight slices of a bat-shaped pizza with a calzonelike crust filled with garlic white sauce and topped with cheese and julienne pepperoni. It comes with Crazy Sauce for dipping. For a location near you, go to littlecaesars.com. Hungry Howie’s: Enjoy a large specialty pizza for $13.99 when ordering online. Use promo code “3301.” To order or find a location near you, go to hungryhowies.com. Papa John’s: Get any large original or thin-crust pizza with up to five toppings or a specialty pizza for $14. Double it and get two pizzas and save $1. To order or find a location near you, go to papajohns.com. Marco’s Pizza: Marco’s is offering several deals. Get a large Pepperoni Magnifico for $9.99 when you order online or through the app with code “PEPMAG.” Or, get unlimited two-topping pizzas for $8.99 each for takeout only using code “HOT2GO” and $3 off any large specialty pizzas with code “SPECIAL3.” Pizza Hut: The $10 Tastemaker deal features a large pizza with three toppings. Order it for takeout or delivery online or over the phone. Delivery charge additional. For a location near you, go to pizzahut.com. CiCis Pizza: Get two large one-topping pizzas for $5.99 each. Order must be placed in the “deals” section online or on the mobile app. Limit 10 pizzas. Get an Ultimate Giant Pepperoni Value Meal starting at $18.99. Meal includes one Ultimate Giant Pepperoni pizza and choice of cheesy bread or cinnamon rolls. To place an order or find a location near you, go to cicis.com/deals. Pasqually’s Pizza and Wings: Get a large one-topping pizza and two orders of boneless wings for $28.59. Or, get a Pizza Duo Bundle with two one-topping large pizzas for $23.59. To order or find a location near you, go to pasquallyspizza.com. Westshore Pizza: Westshore in Largo is offering up a 10-inch pizza with three toppings for $8.99. Or, get your choice of two Red Bull Deals. One features two slices of one-topping pizza and a Red Bull for $7.99. The other features an 18-inch one-topping pizza and two Red Bulls for $16.99. Orders must be placed online. Available at 7651 Starkey Road, Largo, only. To order, go to westshorepizza.com and click on locations to select the Largo store. 727-391-9559.