TAMPA — Three hospitals in Hillsborough County are poised to share $16.4 million in federal American Rescue Plan aid to expand COVID-19 treatment and mental health care. Proposed agreements with Tampa General Hospital, BayCare Health System’s St. Joseph’s Hospital-North and AdventHealth Carrollwood Hospital are scheduled to be considered Wednesday by Hillsborough County commissioners. The planned allocations are: Commissioner Ken Hagan, whose district includes St. Joseph’s Hospital-North, called the health care providers “incredible partners during the COVID pandemic.” The agreements, he said, “will help provide dedicated COVID facilities, which in turn creates more space to expand all patient care.” Commissioner Pat Kemp voiced similar support. “The hospitals in Tampa Bay and nationally have struggled so much during this pandemic and they’ve been extraordinary in what they’ve been able to do,” said Kemp, who noted the importance of expanded mental health services. Florida ranks third highest in the nation for prevalence of mental illness, 12th highest for serious mental illness and second in the nation for suicidal ideation, according to data from the nonprofit Mental Health America that was shared with commissioners. Hillsborough County, however, has 9.2 adult psychiatric beds per 100,000 people, less than half the state average, according to the Florida Agency for Health Care Administration. The agreement with Tampa General marks the second time the commission steered relief dollars toward the facility. In October 2020, the county agreed to contribute $4.5 million in federal CARES Act dollars to help the hospital renovate a former rehabilitation hospital into a 59-bed intensive care unit with up to 45 so-called surge readiness beds dedicated to COVID-19. The facility opened two months later as the Taneja Family Global Emerging Diseases Institute. The new allocation will contribute to that concept of a “hospital‐within‐a‐hospital,” with 28 beds dedicated to inpatient infectious disease treatments that also have universal intensive care and medical surgical capabilities. The facility will have a surge capacity of up to 88 beds. In Carrollwood, the federal dollars will help the 119-bed hospital convert existing medical surgical beds into a 25-bed COVID-19 unit. AdventHealth said its regional division of 11 hospitals had daily COVID-19 case counts reach as high as 768. The allocations will come from the $285.9 million designated for Hillsborough County under the federal American Relief Plan. Each  hospital is required to match the county’s contribution.