TAMPA — Seth DeMoor is a bright light, a whirlwind of energy, a wealth of running knowledge. Wherever he goes many runners follow, and they are often captured on DeMoor’s camera. DeMoor, 36, blew into Tampa on Friday afternoon after a flight from his home in Colorado, a journey documented as part of a daily vlog on his YouTube channel. The video followed everything from packing his suitcase (energy bars, cameras, shoes, foam rollers and socks) to flying, to meeting Saturday morning with more than 50 runners who follow his channel (which has 155,000 total subscribers). They went for a group run around downtown Tampa (captured on video), then broke away to rest up for Sunday’s Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic half-marathon, which would be the first-ever for DeMoor. At the end of the video, taped in DeMoor’s hotel room Saturday evening, he broke down his strategy for competing, which involved running “negative splits,” or basically running the second half of a race faster than the first half. The Gasparilla half-marathon, after all, was a sort of training race for DeMoor’s most current racing focus: The Rotterdam (Netherlands) Marathon, April 9. “I haven’t tapered for (the Gasparilla half),” he said on the video, but added that he wasn’t going to hold back either. DeMoor — the two-time defending champion of the Pikes Peak (Colo.) Marathon who describes himself as more of a terrain runner than a road racer — had a goal of possibly dipping under one hour, five minutes to set a personal best. In the end, the weather was a bit too hot and humid for DeMoor to run as fast as he wanted, but he still was the best of Sunday’s crop, winning in 1:08:57, 44 seconds ahead of Lakeland 35-year-old Jon Mott, a former multiple winner of the event. Bradenton’s Ian Walsh, 35, was third in 1:09:54. DeMoor said the breakdown for the race was pretty simple: At 3 miles he pushed ahead, then he held the lead the rest of the way. Afterward, of course, DeMoor was pleased. “I’m often happy,” he said waving to a bunch of his cheering fans, many of whom came over for a selfie. “I didn’t run the time I was hoping for, but that’s okay because this was a great experience,” DeMoor said. “There were so many people cheering along the way, so much great energy. “I knew it was going to be tough the last 10K and then it was. I’m from Colorado and we don’t have any humidity. Right when the sun came up (around 6:45) it started to get tougher. But yes, I loved it out here, the volunteers, the cheering, yelling, screaming, all of it.” You might see DeMoor return. During the winter the past few years, he’s made trips to Florida to fill out his competition schedule, which involves around six races a year. Among the top-25 men’s finishers on Sunday, Brian Falcone of Wisconsin was the oldest at 43 (ninth, 1:16:23). Skip Carmichael of Arizona was the youngest at 19 (18th, 1:18:20). Two men from the 75-79 age group — Dunedin’s Ron Balow, 77, and Belleaire’s James White, 78 — had performances of note: Balow won the age group in 2:16:54 and White was second in 2:17:09.