TAMPA — The Bucs are going to have to pony up for some more gold watches at the rate players are retiring. Quarterback Tom Brady (we think) and guard Ali Marpet have called it a career. Tight end Rob Gronkowski could hang up his cleats for the second time any day now. The Bucs still await decisions by outside linebacker Jason Pierre-Paul (33) and defensive linemen Ndamukong Suh (35) and Steve McLendon (36) about whether they want to play in 2022. The Bucs have until March 8 to determine whether to use their franchise or transition player tag. Free agency begins March 14, with the signing period commencing two days later. There’s a lot on the Bucs’ to-do list as they head to the scouting combine that begins Tuesday in Indianapolis. The Indiana Convention Center is the place where, two years ago, Bucs coach Bruce k talked about Door No. 2. Asked which quarterback he would pick up the phone for, Arians said, “Tom Brady.” Solving the riddle at quarterback is the biggest priority for the Bucs, and there will be no shortage of conversations about trades and/or free-agent signings this week. The Bucs’ brass not only will get to watch draft prospects work out and obtain their medical information, they will be able to conduct one-on-one interviews with players, as well. There will be a lot of dinners and backdoor deals swung over steaks and drinks at Prime 47, St. Elmo or Harry & Izzy’s. Here’s a few items on the agenda. Determine which quarterbacks are truly available You know the names. In order of preference by the Bucs: Aaron Rodgers, Deshaun Watson and Russell Wilson. At least the Texans appear committed to dealing the 26-year-old Watson, who faces 22 civil suits by women alleging sexual assault or misconduct. It may be tough for the Glazer family that owns the Bucs to sign off on that, but Watson hopes to have his problems behind him by the NFL draft in late April. The Bucs aren’t big on Jimmy Garoppolo. They don’t see Carson Wentz as an upgrade. Teddy Bridgewater would have to compete. Heck, even Blaine Gabbert will become a free agent. It’s important for the Bucs to meet with the agents for these players (yes, including Jameis Winston) so they can weigh their true options. Chances are, the Bucs will wind up with Gabbert and a veteran quarterback to push him until Kyle Trask develops. But this is the week to really learn if you have a legitimate shot at one of the bigger-name QBs. 5 players in draft Bucs will keep an eye on Jahan Dotson, WR, Penn State: The Bucs could lose Chris Godwin to free agency after he tore his ACL late in the year. But one Penn State receiver leaving town just makes room for another. Dotson is a good route-runner and can make spectacular catches. “I think Dotson, for me, I think he has the best hands in the draft,” said NFL Media draft analyst Daniel Jeremiah during a conference call on Friday. “He really attacks the football. He’s got outstanding ability to adjust. He can catch it back hip, above the rim. You name it, he can do it. So he’s a really intriguing player to me.” The Bucs pick 27th in the first round. It’s probably a pipe dream to think Dotson would sink that low. Jameson Williams, WR, Alabama: Why would the Bucs invest money and a high draft pick in a receiver coming off a torn ACL to potentially replace a receiver (Godwin) who is recovering from a torn ACL? The Bucs finished the 2022 season with Brady throwing game-winning touchdown passes to players such as Breshad Perriman and Cyril Grayson. Williams is an extraordinary talent whose value could fall to the Bucs at No. 27. Until Marpet retired, receiver had been the Bucs’ biggest need. Garrett Wilson, WR, Ohio State: Mike Evans is entering his (gulp) ninth season. Every Batman needs Robin. Who knows if Godwin can play for sure, and Antonio Brown is long gone. At 6-feet-2, 192 pounds, Wilson is quick in small spaces and will make yards after the catch. Jordan Davis DT, Georgia: We’re still waiting to see whether Suh will call it quits. Regardless, he’s not going to play forever, and Vita Vea needs a player to eat up space with him. Davis can do that at 6 feet and 245 pounds. Davis had just seven career sacks in four seasons at Georgia, including only two just last season. That may be because he averaged just over 25 snaps per game. He wouldn’t be a part-time player in Tampa Bay. Treylon Burks, WR Arkansas: Some believe Burks is the best receiver in the draft, which would beg the question: Why would he slip all the way to the Bucs at No. 27? Burks caught 66 passes for 1,104 yards and 11 touchdowns this year and had explosive runs after the catch. He has size and speed, and he’s physical. Arians, Licht to meet with media Nearly ever NFL head coach and general manager goes to the podium and holds about a 10-minute news conference in the Indiana Convention Center during the combine. Arians and Jason Licht are tentatively scheduled to speak Tuesday around 1 p.m. It’s the first time they can assess their QB situation while discussing team needs and other matters. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.