NASHVILLE — It was hard to miss the royal blue and stark white jerseys walking around downtown Nashville Saturday as Lightning fans flooded Broadway, the city’s popular thoroughfare. As fans prepared for the outdoor game against the Predators that night at Nissan Stadium, many joined the day-long tailgate scene in Music City. Some shouted, “Go Bolts!” over the noise from pedal pubs — bicycle-moving vehicles where it’s legal for patrons to drink and ride — and music leaking from bars. Others donned cowboy hats and Stadium Series-themed attire under mismatched layers to help stay warm. “I feel like I’m in downtown (Tampa),” said Neal Ellsworth, 36, of Tampa. “We started saying, ‘Go Bolts!’ every time we saw somebody, and by the end of Thursday we were tired of saying it because it was, like, every second. It’s amazing how many Tampa Bay fans are out here.” It made for a great game-day scene in the hours leading up to puck drop in front of about 65,000 fans. Here’s what some Lightning fans had to say about the experience. ‘We’re like a sea of blue’ Courtney Ellsworth and her husband, Neal, decided to attend the game as soon as it was announced during the Lightning’s Stanley Cup final series against the Canadiens this past summer. They bought their tickets four weeks ago. The couple of seven years had never been to Nashville until they arrived Thursday morning. They called walking up and down Broadway “overwhelming” but said seeing so many blue and white jerseys made them feel at home. “We’re like a sea of blue,” said Courtney, 30, of Tampa. With temperatures expected to be in the low 40s and high 30s, the couple had to order cold-weather gear on Amazon and break out old clothes from the back of the closet. Scarves, sleeveless jackets, gloves, beanies and coats made the packing list. “We brought every piece of warming layers that we own,” Neal said. “We kind of mismatch with everything, but we’ll be warm.” First Lightning game for Kansas City native Eric Stokes had not had the pleasure of seeing his favorite hockey team in person until Saturday night. Stokes, 18, of Kansas City, Mo., was gifted the trip to the game by his dad, James. The two traveled with Sean McFall, a close family friend they call Eric’s “uncle.” Arriving on Friday night, the trio wandered down Broadway for the first time, in awe of Nashville’s offerings. They planned to do more sightseeing after the game. McFall, 46, of Tampa, was thrilled to share the experience with Eric, who is anxious to see players like Steven Stamkos, Victor Hedman and Brayden Point play in person after watching them on television for so long. “I felt like a kid in a candy store getting off the plane (Friday) night,” Eric said. “I know it’s going to be wild. There’s going to be so many people screaming and hollering.” For McFall, it was about sharing the experience with the Stokeses and adding another “big moment” to his list after previously attending Stanley Cup finals and other Lightning games in Tampa. “(This team’s) earned it,” McFall said. “Tampa doesn’t get enough credit, but now that they’ve won, they’re due.” Tampa Bay fans travel from Atlanta Damon Kelly, Erin Bubelis and Melissa Reynolds met through a Bucs fans Facebook group more than a decade ago and have been friends ever since. Living in Atlanta, there wasn’t a question where they’d be this weekend, with it being such a short trip. Kelly turned 53 on Friday and wanted to celebrate with his friends. Saturday afternoon, they tailgated outside Nissan Stadium with a group of fellow Lightning fans. Since the group drove to Nashville, they had room for lawn chairs, folding tables and coolers for drinks and leftover snacks from their rented Airbnb. Typically, Kelly makes it to Tampa for one or two games a season. But he knew Saturday’s experience was unlike any at Amalie Arena. “I don’t know what to expect,” Kelly, donning a black Vinny Lecavalier jersey, said Saturday afternoon. “I’m already starting to feel the butterflies, just the anticipation of getting in there. When I see the players come on the ice and start skating, I’m going to lose my mind.” Orlando trio reunites When Andrew Yonker moved to Nashville last year, he had the perfect setup for welcoming friends from Orlando while experiencing a Lightning game outdoors. An Orlando native and USF alumnus, Yonker, 30, grew up a Lightning fan. So did pals Nick Siciliano, 30, and Eric Fuller, 31, both of Orlando. They occasionally attend Solar Bears games, the Lightning’s ECHL affiliate that plays in Orlando. Yonker parked his truck in Lot C of Nissan Stadium, and the trio set up a makeshift tailgate with fried chicken, salsa, meat and cheese wraps, and Crater’s caramel and cheddar popcorn mix. They enjoyed a different tailgating scene than they see in Florida, with people sitting around roaring fire pits and kids playing roller hockey in the parking lot. “It’s been fun,” Siciliano said. “And we thought this would be a great excuse to come see (Yonker).” Celebrating a birthday and an anniversary Clint and Keri Kelly haven’t lived in South Tampa for long, but it’s been enough to enjoy the Lightning’s back-to-back Stanley Cup championships the past two seasons. It’s why they decided to celebrate Keri’s 36th birthday and the couple’s third wedding anniversary in Nashville this weekend. The couple looked forward to witnessing history as the Lightning played in their first NHL outdoor game and seeing. As a bonus, they got to view the Stanley Cup for the first time in person at a fan event outside the stadium. Hearing Tampa Bay fans chant their support for the team from inside bars as they strolled around Nashville was just an appetizer before seeing their favorite players compete under the stadium lights. Keri was hoping for an Andrei Vasilevskiy shutout, Clint a Brayden Point goal. Clint, 33, said it was an experience he will never forget. “We’re just waiting for that (goosebumps) moment,” he said Saturday afternoon. “Hearing that, ‘Let’s go Lightning!’ chant for the first time outside with all of the Lightning fans that are going to be here in Nashville is going to be cool.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.