TAMPA — Tommy and Gronky ran the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 15K on Saturday morning. No wait … that was Natalie Price, 46, and sister Jessica Campbell, 45 — in white jerseys, complete with pads, helmets and footballs. Price was tight end Rob Gronkowski. Campbell was quarterback Tom Brady. Confused? Who cares? People along the course loved to interact with the “Bucs sisters.” Close to the end of the race Saturday, for instance, a kid yelled, “Throw me the football!” Gronkowski yelled back, “Are you gonna catch it?” The kid yelled, “Yes!” Gronkowski turned to Brady and said, “You’re the one whose supposed to throw it.” Brady replied, “I’m not throwing it. I’m retired.” When they finally crossed the finish line in two hours, nine minutes, Brady and Gronk were “pooped!” “We make the mistake every time of putting way too much emphasis on the costumes and not enough on the training,” said Campbell, who said 3 miles was the most she ever ran to prepare for the weekend. “These helmets are also hot!” Oh yeah, the helmets. Campbell ordered them, but didn’t realize until after she opened the box a few days ago that it said on a piece of tape, “Only to be used for display.” Undaunted, Campbell ripped out some of the helmets’ interior plastic and re-glued spongy pads inside. After applying duct tape on the ear holes, they were good to go. “We have to do whatever we have to do to get it done,” Price said. “We have a tradition to uphold.” Do they ever. The past eight years at the race weekend, Campbell and Price have been twin Hulk Hogans, mermaids, old ladies, sailors (with life preservers), and of course, pirates. But last year with the pandemic they got shut out. Price, who lives in Bermuda with her husband, Tim Price — whom she met at the Gasparilla race weekend in 2014 — couldn’t come home to Tampa for the virtual races. That’s why this year felt particularly important, with a couple extra exclamation points. Campbell’s 11-year-old daughter, Kristin, cheered on her mom and aunt in the 15K and then, wearing a pink flamingo suit, finished the 5K in 47 minutes. And the sisters’ mother, Karen Dyrli, 73, walked her second Gasparilla 5K in 1:31:46, finishing almost dead last, waving a Bucs flag and balancing on a cane. Price and Campbell, still dressed in full Bucs’ gear, were there at the finish line to give mom a big hug. On Sunday, the sisters returned to “run” the half-marathon, dressed like old ladies wearing Hooters uniforms. What’s next? “We’re sworn to secrecy,” Price said. “We will never tell.” A pop of history The first handful of finishers who crossed the finish line of the 15K Saturday morning were greeted by a smiling septuagenarian handing out popsicle sticks. Unbeknownst to them, the wooden trinkets oozed symbolism and sentimentality. In the first Gasparilla race — on Feb. 13, 1978 — Wayne Papy and his crew handed them out to every finisher. “We used popsicle sticks for timing,” said Papy (pronounced like “pappy”). “When they came across the finish line, we handed them a popsicle stick, and we had a number on it.” A retired deputy director of the City of Tampa Parks and Recreation Department, Papy, 78, outraced the sun to the southern fringe of downtown Tampa on Saturday to help coordinate his 45th and final Gasparilla race weekend. He’s retiring from the gig, which has featured a smorgasbord of responsibilities in those 4 1/2 decades. “I’m just worn out,” he said with a chuckle. Papy barely had to buy popsicle sticks in bulk supply when the event was launched in the polyester era. The first Gasparilla featured 3,500 runners and raised approximately $17,000 for charity. In 2020, the last pre-pandemic running of the event, it attracted roughly 10 times as many participants competing in races of four separate distances and raised $223,497 for charity, according to the event’s website. During that evolution, five men — now ranging in age from 72 to 84 — have competed in every single Distance Classic. Papy’s the sixth constant. “He’s just been great for all 45 years,” said Chris Tatreau, who runs a Philadelphia-based race-consulting business and has worked the last 40 Gasparillas. “I have 40 in, and it was easier to come in here (because) Wayne was open to suggestions, Wayne was open to best practices that maybe they hadn’t thought about. Great guy.” Fab 5 back for 45th weekend Some things continue. Five guys — Stuart Carrier, 72; Rob Mason, 76; Mike Shaver, 78; Thomas Singletary, 80; and Lewis Harris, 84 — finished the 5K Saturday afternoon, a significant accomplishment if there ever was one. They are, in fact, the only five people to participate in all 45 Gasparilla race weekends. Perhaps the best example of the group’s fortitude was Mason, who on Friday wrenched his foot walking from the race’s expo to his car. “I pulled something and it hurt a lot,” said Mason, a Lakeland native. “I didn’t sleep for beans for (Friday) night. I had a pain inside of my foot. I started reading a book about feet and it said wrap your feet and take ibuprofen so that’s what I did before I came over (Saturday morning). My wife said go to a massage therapist, so that’s what I did and that made all the difference.” By the time Mason reached the 5K starting line he felt much better, which translated to him running the fastest of the five,” finishing in 39 minutes, 31 seconds. Palm Harbor’s Harris was next at 43:40, followed by North Carolina’s Carrier (56:39), Tampa’s Singletary (57:06) and Riverview’s Shaver (1:03:51). Mason said quitting is simply not an option. “I was determined that if I had to crawl through the finish line I would,” Mason said. “Because you don’t do 44 and not do 45 unless you’re dead. I was thinking a crutch, a wheelchair, whatever I had to do to get through it. I had to find a way to finish. I had to. “I’m so happy that my foot suddenly felt better. I have to thank that massage therapist so much.” Meet Pepperjack the parrot Runners may have a noticed a new feathered friend this weekend. Pepperjack the parrot, the Distance Classic’s mascot, made his debut. “Most long-term events have a character or a mascot, so this was our opportunity to create something from scratch,” said Susan Harmeling, the race’s executive director. More than 2,900 names were submitted, with Gainesville resident Deborah Coleman picking the winner. As a reward, Coleman, 62, can run the Classic for free for the next 25 years. Coleman, who submitted more than 25 other names during the month-long October contest, said she’s had the name in mind for “years and years.” It’s even a nickname for her husband, Bill. “It was really overwhelming (finding out I won),” Coleman said. “At first, it didn’t hit me … when I could finally tell people and talk about it, then it really hit me, like, wow, I got to name Pepperjack.” Newsome High sophomore Athan Huskey, 16, and Newsome alumnus Carson Cornock, 19, split shifts playing Pepperjack during race weekend. A week ago at the Jr. Gasparilla Distance Classic, the pair went through a live training course with the Lightning’s mascot, ThunderBug, who taught them to hold the head a certain way so people could see more of the parrot’s features. “He gave them pointers as they were doing it,” said Natalie Hastings, a 10th grade reading teacher at Newsome who has volunteered with the race for five years. “It was amazing.” And for Huskey, who has acting aspirations after high school and has been involved in drama for the past eight years, the experience was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. “I’m honored to be a part of this,” he said. “This is a very fun thing.”