Fixing a roof problem Progressive cuts 56K Fla. home policies | Feb. 9 Insurance requirements for roofs need to change. A roof should be prorated after 10 years, because it is not fair for the homeowner to get free roof replacement. A roof is a maintenance item just like painting and caulking to prevent rain intrusion. Roofing materials need truth-in-wear ratings. When have you seen a 30-year shingle actually last 30 years? So, require insurance companies to send out adjusters, allow for prorating roofs after 10 years and require that manufacturers provide evidence of wear ratings to the insurers and homeowners as the basis for prorating. Craig Lewis, Tampa Voters know the score The RNC’s idea of ‘legitimate political discourse’ shows how far gone it is | Column, Feb. 9 Three words, “legitimate political discourse,” the Republican National Committee’s characterization of the Jan 6 insurrection, may usher in one of the most profound electoral upsets in history. The electorate, typically passive during midterm elections, is roused. Did the RNC actually believe that its denial of reality was a sound political strategy? Voters do not take kindly to condescension, and trivializing the attempted violent overthrow of our representative democracy is exactly that. Political pundits, most of whom are predicting Republican majorities in Congress after the 2022 midterms, may want to revisit their calculus. Jim Paladino, Tampa Keep the children safe Child migrants caught in a state-federal clash | Feb. 7 Children should grow up in a safe and loving environment. The immigrant children — like Aztrith Oliva and her brother, who were mentioned in this story — fled from a dangerous, abusive situation to come to the “land of the free.” Now the governor of Florida wants to refuse to allow these children safe havens? I do not understand what he has against children? His own are safe and loved; why can’t other children be treated the same way? Thank you to all who have sent signed letters of protest to the governor to cease and desist from this cruel insistence that children do not deserve to start over. Aztrith has become a productive citizen, excelling in school and working in the community. All children, no matter where they come from, deserve the same opportunities. Carol Hess, Hudson