Florida has been in the news lately for controversy over banning books in some school districts. But there’s a new book list that celebrates Florida books by diverse authors, about diverse subject matter: the 2021 Florida Book Awards. Tampa Bay area authors scored several medals this year. Sweeping the poetry category were Eckerd College assistant professor Gloria Muñoz, who won the gold for her powerful bilingual collection Danzirly; University of South Florida assistant professor Julia Koets, taking silver for her book Pine; and John Davis Jr., a local teacher whose book The Places That Hold won the bronze. In the younger children’s literature category, St. Petersburg author Moira Rose Donohue won the silver medal for Stompin’ at the Savoy: How Chick Webb Became the King of Drums, and Brandon writer Rob Sanders took the bronze for Stitch by Stitch: Cleve Jones and the AIDS Memorial Quilt. The gold medal for popular fiction went to Noel Zamot of Tarpon Springs for his psychological thriller The Archer’s Thread. Les Standiford, who won the gold medal in the general nonfiction category for Battle for the Big Top: P.T. Barnum, James Bailey, John Ringling and the Death-Defying Saga of the American Circus, isn’t a Tampa Bay area resident but has a significant local literary tie: He’s the director of Eckerd College’s Writers in Paradise conference. Although some of the winners are best known to Florida readers, some are famous well beyond the Sunshine State, such as Lauren Groff, a Gainesville resident, who won the gold medal for fiction for her compelling novel Matrix. Established in 2006, the Florida Book Awards honor and celebrate “the literature by Florida authors and books about Florida published in the previous year,” according to the organization’s website. The awards program is coordinated by the Florida State University Libraries and co-sponsored by a group of Florida-based literary organizations. The awards are given in 11 categories. For each category, a panel of three judges may name up to three winners. The authors must be Florida residents, except in the Florida nonfiction and visual arts categories, where the subject matter must focus on Florida. For information about the awards, go to floridabookawards.org. Traditionally, the awards are presented to all winners at a banquet in Tallahassee in April. Here are the winners of the 2021 Florida Book Awards. Young children’s literature Gold: Isabel and Her Colores Go to School by Alexandra Alessandri Silver: Stompin’ at the Savoy: How Chick Webb Became the King of Drums by Moira Rose Donohue Bronze: Stitch by Stitch: Cleve Jones and the AIDS Memorial Quilt by Rob Sanders Older children’s literature Gold: Concealed by Christina Diaz Gonzalez Silver: Wild River by Rodman Philbrick Bronze: Golden Gate by James Ponti Young adult literature Gold: Roxy by Neal Shusterman and Jarrod Shusterman General fiction Gold: Matrix by Lauren Groff Silver: Infinite Country by Patricia Engels Bronze: Milk Blood Heat by Daniel W. Moniz Popular fiction Gold: The Archer’s Thread by Noel Zamot Silver: Blowback by Al Pessin Bronze: A Killer’s Daughter by Jenna Kernan Poetry Gold: Danzirly by Gloria Muñoz Silver: Pine by Julia Koets Bronze: The Places That Hold by John Davis Jr. Florida nonfiction Gold: The Swamp Peddlers: How Lot Sellers, Land Scammers, and Retirees Built Modern Florida and Transformed the American Dream by Jason Vuic Silver: Father James Page: An Enslaved Preacher’s Climb to Freedom by Larry Eugene Rivers Bronze: The Nine Lives of Florida’s Famous Marco Key Cat by Austin J. Bell General nonfiction Gold: Battle for the Big Top: P.T. Barnum, James Bailey, John Ringling and the Death-Defying Saga of the American Circus by Les Standiford Silver: Race, Crime, and Policing in the Jim Crow South: African Americans and Law Enforcement in Birmingham, Memphis, and New Orleans, 1920-1945 by Brandon T. Jett Bronze: The Princess Spy by Larry Loftis Visual arts Gold: The Art of Birds: Grace and Motion in the Wild by Jim Miller Spanish language Gold: Vacaciones sin hotel: Antología se autores del Sur de la Florida by Hernán Vera Álvarez et al. Silver: Etnia, raza y sexualidad en la dramaturgia femenina hispano-caribeña en los Estados Unidos by Carmen Duarte Bronze: El reino de la infancia — Memorias de mi vida en Cuba by Uva de Aragon Cooking No award given