Rhea Law, the influential Tampa attorney who is serving as the University of South Florida’s interim president, has applied to take the job permanently, according to records. Tasked with creating a “smooth glide path” for the next president, Law, who assumed the interim role in August after former president Steve Currall stepped down, has been praised by many for working efficiently and building relationships. Since arriving, she oversaw the redo of USF’s new strategic plan and put an end to a controversial chapter by retracting calls for development of the USF Forest Preserve on Fletcher Avenue, winning over critics of the administration’s previous plans. She’s met regularly with state legislators, including Senate President Wilton Simpson, whose daughter now serves on the university’s board of trustees, and her former mentee, House Speaker Chris Sprowls. She also has interacted frequently with business leaders, and recently held court with the presidents of the University of Florida and the University of Central Florida at a recent innovation summit, talking about the role of the university and economic growth. Law issued bonuses to staff who worked through the pandemic and has overseen the beginning of plans for an on-campus stadium. At a board of trustees meeting last year, board members joked that they expected the stadium to be built before her interim term was up. The consultant hired by the school to conduct a national presidential search repeatedly reassured the university’s search committee that they could take their time in finding a strong candidate because of the job Law was doing. Law, a USF alumna who previously served on and chaired the university’s board of trustees, wrote in her application of her plans to stay on. “The past few years at USF have been steeped in seemingly constant change,” she wrote. “From the pandemic and a wake of social recalibration to consolidation and new leadership, our community has endured an immense amount of challenge. Rather than slow us down, these changes have ushered in a new collective empathy and optimism. Now is the time for us to invest in our people, giving faculty, staff and students the tools they need to maximize success within this new paradigm.” This is a developing story and will be updated.