We live in a partisan age, and our news habits can reinforce our own perspectives. Consider this an effort to broaden our collective outlook with essays beyond the range of our typical selections. FROM THE LEFT From “Revulsion Against Billionaire Wealth Isn’t About ‘Envy.’ It’s About Democracy,” by Luke Savage in Jacobin at bit.ly/34G5P0C. The context, from the author: Rotterdam has been forced to walk back the dismantling of a historic bridge to make way for Jeff Bezos’ superyacht. But the incident is a reminder that billionaires’ obscene wealth isn’t just about hoarding resources — it’s also about undermining democracy. The excerpt: Being a billionaire, after all, doesn’t just give you the ability to buy luxury products, expensive property and an excess of “stuff.” Wealth on this scale inevitably translates into power: to advance (or help agitate against) particular political causes; to influence or control major investment decisions; to transcend national borders and avoid tax; to indulge personal hobbies on a scale that potentially threatens national monuments and historic infrastructure; to own large chunks of the world economy; and to quite literally bend society around your own wants, needs and interests. In Bezos’ case, owning a 10 percent stake in the world’s largest company also comes with a considerable mandate to shape the lives of millions of his fellow human beings. From “Your Best Friend’s Poop Is Harmful to Nature,” by Damian Carrington in Mother Jones at bit.ly/3rAYOXL. The context, from the author: A study shows the extent of canine waste, whose nutrients damage biodiversity. The excerpt: Dog feces and urine are being deposited in nature reserves in such quantities that it is likely to be damaging wildlife, according to a new study. The analysis found that the resulting overfertilization of the ground with nitrogen and phosphorus by footpaths could reach levels that would be illegal on farmland. From “Democrats Are Facing an Uphill Battle,” by Aída Chávez in The Nation at bit.ly/3GF4lB8. The context, from the author: With the midterm elections on the horizon, the party is alienating its base and losing public confidence. The excerpt: Since the 2020 election, GOP lawmakers have passed voting restrictions in states across the country. It’s that onslaught, combined with the already bleak electoral landscape, that recently led Democrats to make one last push for voting rights reform. But when their effort fizzled in the Senate, (President Joe) Biden blamed Republicans for obstructing his agenda, highlighting his own political impotence. As a result of the administration’s back-to-back failures, Biden’s support is crumbling among all Americans, including some of the most crucial groups in his base: Black and Latino voters and young people. FROM THE RIGHT From “One Man Alone,” by Michael Brendan Dougherty in the National Review at bit.ly/3Bb7h7a. The context, from the author: What kind of society lets a dead man’s body rot alone in his home for a year? The excerpt: Old men like this are often feared figures. Men who live without wife or children, who have lost or never had a vocation, are like men next to their own car crash. They stand next to the wreck of it all, looking disoriented, and we drive past. We might gawk for a moment, but most of us also fear to look too closely. We fear what it would be like to intervene. And we dread — consciously, or subconsciously — ever ending up in such circumstances ourselves. We hope that a subtle nod, mere recognition of the man, is a good deed done. ... We expect that engaging men like these, even gently pulling on the thread of their lives, will leave them and ourselves completely entangled and lost in their mess. From “Lighten The Truckers’ Load,” by Gord Magill in The American Conservative at bit.ly/3uSmSrx. The context, from the author: Treating truckers poorly has economic consequences. The excerpt: The real problem (behind critical truck driver shortages) is simple: Large legacy carriers refuse to do what it takes to retain experienced drivers, namely, improve driver compensation and working conditions. The only reason the trucking industry is able to survive with such high turnover rates is a multi-layered corporate-welfare complex that props up the industry. Here’s how it works: The state subsidizes new-driver training. Those new drivers keep the trucks moving, but they cause a number of downstream effects: wage suppression for the rest of the truckers, spikes in accidents and resulting regulatory programs, and experienced drivers to consider other career paths as a response to those regulatory burdens. It’s a self-licking ice cream cone, funded by state and local jobs-program grants, direct subsidies to truck-driving schools and federal money. From “The High Cost of How We Work,” by Mike St. Thomas in The Bulwark at bit.ly/3gB2S4c. The context, from the author: Why do our jobs leave so many of us exhausted, cynical and feeling useless — and what can we do about it? The excerpt: In his lecture “Leisure, the Basis of Culture,” given in the wake of the Second World War, German Catholic philosopher Josef Pieper describes what he called our modern culture of “total work.” Without a conception of leisure — not simply “free time” but things done for their own sake, like sports, art, and, especially, for Pieper, worship — our society devalues any activity, and ultimately any person, that cannot demonstrate its usefulness.