The big story: As expected, the Florida House on Tuesday advanced two hot-button education bills to third and final reading. Less expected were the amendments — a couple that made it through, and one that got withdrawn. Just before members gathered on the floor, the sponsor of the bill that’s been called “don’t say gay” dropped his proposal that could have led to the outing of LGBTQ students to their parents, without their permission. During discussion on that bill, meanwhile, sponsor Rep. Joe Harding won support along party lines to add an administrative remedy for parents who say their schools have violated the rules, yet cannot afford to sue. On the bill inspired by what Gov. DeSantis has called the “Stop W.O.K.E.” act, the Democrats found support for two of the several amendments they recommended. Read our story all about it here. More from Florida Politics, USA Today Florida Network. Democratic legislative leaders said they know they don’t have the votes to stop such measures, but they’ll keep fighting to improve them, WFSU reports. Survey says ... The University of North Florida conducted a poll about some of these issues. Florida voters were split almost evenly, the Orlando Sentinel reports. The Florida Education Association also conducted a poll about how certain education issues are handled, Florida Politics reports. From the court docket ... A full panel of the federal 11th Circuit heard arguments in the nationally watched lawsuit regarding the St. Johns County school district’s policy on transgender student restroom use. The discussion focused on whether the district violated the equal protection clause or Title IX, Courthouse News Service reports. • The Biden administration sided with the student in the case, Bloomberg Law reports. • Some of the judges were wary of the district’s position, Law360.com reports. More Tallahassee action The University of South Florida is one of four state schools looking for a new president. State Sen. Jeff Brandes explained his proposal to shield search documents from the public record, WUSF reports. Lawmakers have proposed major changes to the state’s Baker Act. If passed, these would be the first major reforms to the measure in 50 years, Florida Politics reports. The House also advanced ... A bill that aims to rectify problems districts have faced in complying with the requirements of the state’s school security laws, Florida Politics reports. • A proposal to require instruction about the victims of communism, Florida Politics reports. Today in Tallahassee ... The full Senate is scheduled to convene at 3 p.m. The special order calendar includes SB 1054 on financial literacy, SB 892 on charter schools and SB 896 on educator certification for veterans. • The House Education and Employment Committee meets at 1 p.m., where it will consider 11 bills including HB 1193 on testing, HB 865 on charter schools and HB 1115 on financial literacy. • The Education Estimating Conference meets at 8:30 a.m. to examine public-school enrollment. Hot topics Youth mental health: Florida schools have made the issue a priority, but are struggling to meet children’s needs. School threats: A Broward County teen spent two weeks in detention over a threat she didn’t make. The Sun-Sentinel explores how that happened. Sex education: It’s not required in Florida schools, and three northwest Florida districts don’t offer it, WEAR reports. Substitute teacher shortage: The Citrus County School Board discussed plans to increase substitute salaries as soon as possible, the Citrus County Chronicle reports. Superintendent turnover: Newly selected Broward County superintendent Vickie Cartwright has agreed to a contract through 2024, WLRN reports. The terms were less than what Cartwright, the district’s first female superintendent, had initially wanted. Funding sources: The Flagler County Commission again delayed action on the School Board’s unanimous request to increase impact fees, Flagler Live reports. School board battles: The state’s attorney has declined to file charges against state Rep. Randy Fine, who was accused of cyberbullying Brevard School Board member Jennifer Jenkins, Florida Today reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s the link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Who needs Dune when you can have Elmo? Waiting for the full length version. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.