When I first moved to Florida from New York 25 years ago, I started working with the Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce. At the time, only a handful of the chamber’s roughly 4,000 members were Hispanic. Language barriers, funding and other obstacles prevented them from participating in the greater business community. I hoped to change that. Failing to engage all those entrepreneurs wasn’t just a missed opportunity — it was detrimental to our economy. In 2000, I founded the Florida State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. In two decades later, we’ve come to represent the business interests of over 604,000 Hispanic-owned businesses that contribute more than $90 billion to our state economy annually. This includes Hispanic professionals and executives of Fortune 500 companies like UPS, Walmart, Pfizer and Ford. We’ve also established partnerships with 38 local chambers and business organizations throughout the state. And yet too many foreign-born entrepreneurs are waiting in the wings, unable to make their full contributions. It seems hard to believe, but there’s no visa that allows someone to settle permanently in United States because they’ve started a business. As a result, we’re losing the next great disruptive company, millions in business and tax revenue and potential job creation. Only Congress can create new visa categories, but the White House is trying to move the needle. Last month, the Biden administration introduced a series of new policies aimed at bringing more high skilled talent to America, including entrepreneurs. The changes make it easier for high-skilled immigrants who are already here on temporary work visas to start their own companies — and secure permanent residency in the process. That’s crucial. Budding entrepreneurs cannot easily go solo on a temporary visa. They are tied to their employers; if they leave the job, they lose their status. And if they do manage to launch a business on the side, they’re prohibited from earning income from the enterprise. Temporary visa holders could take advantage of the new policies if their proposed company is “in the national interest.” Of course, “national interest” could mean a million different things. Florida has a rapidly aging population, has been battered by climate change and continues to be pummeled by COVID. But these aren’t just Florida problems; these are truly national problems. Entrepreneurial immigrants who come here on high skilled visas often have the specific technical skills necessary to address them. We should be doing everything we can to help get their innovations up and running. That means we must do more. We need a true entrepreneurship visa that allows a broad scope of international talent to start a business with the security of permanent status. The immigrant co-founders of Google and eBay weren’t here on temporary visas. In addition to a dedicated visa, we must clear out the green card backlog — currently 1.6 million international employees long. Many of the high skilled immigrants in this line have entrepreneurial dreams. They’d love to start a small or medium-sized businesses if given the chance. But they’re tied to temporary visas, which means their dreams won’t come true. Here in Florida, we have both the talent and the business climate for entrepreneurial greatness. Already more than 3.2 million immigrant entrepreneurs generate $88.5 billion in total sales annually, according to New American Economy. Florida has nearly 400,000 of these people, who generate $8.1 billion for the state. These numbers may seem large, but I assure you, they pale in comparison to what could be. Julio Fuentes is president and CEO of the Florida State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in Wellington.