Hernando County is riding high in the new-home market these days thanks to plenty of affordable land, opportunities for oversized lots and acreage, and comparatively low property taxes and impact fees. To show off the homes offered by the county’s premiere builders, the Hernando Builders Association is once again staging its annual Showcase of Homes. It begins Friday and runs through March 13. There are 16 homes and 10 builders in the Showcase. Nine of the models can be visited in person, with the remainder being virtual entries that can be toured online at www.paradeofhomesnaturecoast.com. On the website, visitors also can learn about Hernando County, the communities in which builders offer homes and other information for prospective buyers, said Nita Beckwith-Melaugh, certified executive officer of the Builders Association. There’s “a lot of interest” in new homes in Hernando in recent months, she said, a lot of it driven by greater values than most other markets can provide. All counties charge impact fees when a new home is built, but in Hernando the savings can be thousands of dollars, Beckwith-Melaugh said. Property taxes are low compared to neighboring counties to the south, as well as northern and western U.S. states, and the cost of living is comparatively low. She said many like the option of oversized lots offered in Hernando, and a recent change allows those building new homes on an acre or more to bypass upgraded septic system rules that can mean a savings of up $10,000, Beckwith-Melaugh said. “It adds up to a lot of savings,” she said, adding that unlike densely developed counties and cities in the region, Hernando has plenty of building land and large parcels. “There’s a lot more opportunity and land to choose from.” Beckwith-Melaugh said there has been a booming interest from new-home buyers in the county. Many are from nearby counties, but there has been a big surge of buyers coming from pricey markets around the country. With no state income tax, great home values and everything the Nature Coast has to offer, smart shoppers are discovering Hernando’s advantages, she said. Builders with entries in the Showcase include Alexander Custom Homes, and Royal Coachman Homes, both of Brooksville. Spring Hill builders include Dream Custom Homes, Legendary Construction & Remodeling, Modern Day Builders, Palmwood Construction, Pastore Custom Builders, and Probuilt U.S. Towsley Construction is a central Florida builder showing. Beckwith-Melaugh said home shoppers will find the builders this year have responded to trends for upgraded flooring, materials and finishes in their models, as well as offering new flexibility to customize spaces. An example is new demand for home office space, as more in the workforce have transitioned to working from home. Bonus rooms are in and builders are accommodating buyers to ensure they get what they want, Beckwith-Melaugh said. Bobby Eaton, president of Probuilt U.S. Homes, said the Camilla model he has in the Showcase has an office, but these days some buyers need two, so he makes custom changes to make it happen. “It’s crazy how many people are working from home now,” he said, adding it isn’t unusual for buyers to ask that the sitting area off a master bedroom be converted into a second office. Eaton said almost anything in Probuilt U.S. homes can be customized to suit the buyer. Models are priced from $250,000 to $450,000, and demand is high for all models. His buyers are coming from crowded counties south of Hernando, as well as Miami and some from out of state. Eaton said spring is his big selling season, and interest in new homes in Hernando from everyone first-time buyers to retirees is running “full throttle right now.” Matt Burich, who founded Dream Custom Homes in 1994, has three models in this year’s Showcase, all share an attribute he said is in high demand—space. The largest model is the Don Valencia, which sports 3,505 square feet of living area. It has four bedrooms and three baths, and a three-car garage. There is an optional pool and cabana. His Don Crystal model comes in at 3,425 square feet of living space. The smallest model in the Showcase is the 3/2/2 Don Calais, which also is roomy at 2,233 square feet of living area. Burich said all home designs and custom modifications are done in-house, and the builder’s focus is on maximizing usable space. He said an example is that while many builders place air handlers inside the home in a closet, Dream models move them to the attic over the garage to “ensure there is no wasted or unusable space inside the home.” Conventional wisdom predicts larger homes like those offered by his company would appeal most to families with children, but Burich said the majority of his buyers now are a “little older” empty or nearly empty-nesters. “They have one or two kids who’ve moved out, with maybe one still at home,” Burich said. “They just like the idea of having the space.” All builders over the past couple of years have been dealing with supply and material price issues, and it’s been no different for Burich, He said home pricing is likely to be up and down a bit at least in the near-term, adding that Dream base prices currently range from $293,900 to $764,900. “There’s a lot of volatility in the market now,” he said, referring to material costs and availability. “It’s a constantly moving target.” Burich said time from permitting to move-in is running about a year in Hernando County. Many of his buyers are coming from northeastern U.S. states, though he notes there has been a significant surge of buyers coming from southeast Florida. “We’re seeing a lot coming from Miami,” Burich said. “They are saying they want to get away from the crowding and traffic.” Burich said there also are a good number of buyers moving north out of Hillsborough, Pinellas, as well as other populated counties along the west coast of Florida. They also seek escape from crowding, he said, but also want to take advantage of the lower initial and ongoing costs of living in Hernando County.