CLEARWATER — Coach Lonni Alameda had a pretty good idea of what her Florida State softball team could do on the field from weeks of practice. Now, at the St. Pete Clearwater Elite Invitational that runs through Sunday at the Eddie C. Moore Complex, she’s starting to see a more complete picture with the pieces she has in her dugout. FSU, ranked No. 5 by Softball America, started the tournament with a 9-3 win over No. 21 Tennessee on Thursday, kicking off a five-game slate for the Seminoles that will include matchups against No. 11 Texas, No. 18 Michigan, No. 25 UCF and No. 3 UCLA. “You practice all the time and you see what you’re capable of in practice, but can you toe it up when a different color uniform’s in the dugout?” Alameda said after the win. “I think coming down here, there’s a lot of energy and excitement. It gives you that postseason feel that (asks), ‘Can you handle that?’ " The Seminoles are undefeated, outscoring opponents 48-8 in their six games entering Friday’s matchup against Texas. It’s the start Alameda and her veterans wanted to see after last season’s heartbreak at the Women’s College World Series, losing the national championship to Oklahoma in a best-of-three final. “Our whole message all fall and spring was nobody cares (about what happened last year), work harder,” said Devyn Flaherty, a junior infielder out of Sarasota. “Last season’s done, it was a great run but we’re excited to take what experience we have and the new assets we have and put them into play here and see how we can run with it this season.” Alameda and her team look forward to the invitational because of the competitive field. This year’s tournament includes nine of Softball America’s top-25 Division I teams, and the Seminoles want the hardest schedule in the regular season. Her team feels that challenge, too, especially veterans like graduate student infielder Sydney Sherrill. “We knew we were going to have some tougher teams this weekend, so we just wanted to see what we had and try to put it together,” Sherrill said. “And I think we did that pretty well (Thursday).” The early success  is an encouraging sign to the Seminoles. It’s been helpful, too, in integrating younger talent, like freshman infielder Brooke Blankenship (River Ridge High), and transfers, like former USF infielder Bethaney Keen, into the culture Alameda and her squad have spent years building. “It’s awesome to see them step up in these big games like (Thursday),” Sherrill said. “But it’s a long season ahead and it’s not always going to be a success, so I’m eager to see what our team looks like then. I know we’ll probably face some of that this weekend with all of these great teams.” The team doesn’t look too far in the future, but a marquee, nationally-televised game against the Bruins (7 p.m. Sunday, ESPN) is hard to ignore. Last year, Florida State lost 4-0 to UCLA in its first game of the Women’s College World Series before going on a five-game win streak that ended against the Sooners in the national title series. The Bruins have an all-time 11-8 advantage over the Seminoles. “It’s kind of a rival game for us,” said Alameda, who is in her 14th season as head coach. “I think we both appreciate playing each other and it’s just really good competition.” And with a game against UCF earlier Sunday afternoon (12:30 p.m., ESPN+), Alameda believes the doubleheader day will be a great test for her group. “We asked for the toughest schedule out there,” Alameda said. “We want to find out what we’re about.” St. Pete Clearwater Elite Softball Invitational Through Sunday, Eddie C. Moore Complex, Clearwater Today: Michigan vs. Oklahoma State, 10 a.m. (ESPNU); Northwestern vs. Texas Tech, 10:30 (ESPN+); Auburn vs. Wisconsin, 11:30 (ESPN+); Washington vs. Tennessee, 12:30 p.m. (SEC); UCLA vs. Northwestern, 1 (ESPN+); Texas vs. FSU, 1 (ESPNU); USF vs. Notre Dame, 3 (ACC); UCF vs. Michigan, 3 (ESPN+); LSU vs. Oklahoma State, 4 (ESPNU); Auburn vs. Texas, 4 (Longhorn); UCF vs. Texas Tech, 6 (ESPN+); Tennessee vs. Clemson, 6; (ESPN+); Washington vs. LSU, 7 (ESPN+) Tickets: Advance tickets sold out, some walkups available; $30 per day More info: stpeteclearwatereliteinvite.com Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.