NASHVILLE — Despite their sustained excellence on the ice over the past several years, an invitation to an outdoor game had long eluded the Lightning. Even after winning on the game’s biggest stage — raising the Stanley Cup the past two seasons — the franchise’s first outdoor game Saturday in some ways finally will mark its arrival. The NHL treats its outdoor games as showcase events. More often than not, the games have been reserved for teams in the most high-profile markets and those with the most long-standing brands. Of the 32 teams, the Lightning are the 27th to play in an outdoor game, facing the Predators at the NFL Titans’ Nissan Stadium. Nashville is made for the spectacle of the game, with its bright lights and big entertainment. After the Lightning and Predators practiced on the rinks assembled 10 weeks ago on the Nissan Stadium field, country music artists Miranda Lambert and Dierks Bentley conducted sound checks for their in-game performances. The Lightning have been waiting for this particular spotlight for years. “I know every year it seems like when they announce the teams (for outdoor games), there’s a couple unhappy guys in the locker room just because it’s such a great experience,” forward Alex Killorn said. “A lot of guys in our room, guys that will go down as really good players in the history of this league, haven’t been able to enjoy an outdoor game. Especially after the last two years, it’s fitting that we get one, and we’re super excited.” The Lightning on Friday tested the ice surface, many wearing eye black to counter the glare from the lights. They bundled up with layers. Being on the ice brought back  memories for coach Jon Cooper, whose father built a family rink when he was growing up in Prince George, British Columbia. After practice Friday, players and staff were able to skate with their families on the ice. “It was just your breath coming out, when you were cold and your feet are freezing and you just want to keep going,” Cooper said. “It was just like a flood of memories. And I just remember skating with my kids thinking I was their age when I was doing this. And we’re doing it in a huge stadium and I’m actually getting to be out there with them. That’s what’s great about the game. It just brings (you) back to when you were a kid.” Lightning defenseman Ryan McDonagh, who has played in four outdoor games, said skating on the ice at night brought back his own childhood memories growing up in St. Paul, Minn. “You’d have your local park rink, and you’d have your time slot and it felt like as you grew up a little bit older you’d get closer to when the lights would come on at night,” he said. “I always remember that being a highlight if you got to skate and have practice when the lights came on in the dark. It will be pretty real (Saturday) night when the lights hit us on the ice.” Cooper said he views the game as a breakthrough event for the franchise. He said he thought back to his first days with the organization after he was hired in March 2013, when he wondered what it would take to see more Lightning jerseys in the stands at road games. The Lightning needed two things to change that, Cooper thought: a few marquee players and a Stanley Cup championship. They now expect Lightning fans to play a large part in filling a 70,000-seat football stadium on the road. By the time the Lightning arrived in Nashville on Friday afternoon, their fans had already descended on the city. Several players, including Killorn, went downtown before practice and saw it filled with supporters of the team. “I took a walk right when we got to the hotel and I didn’t see anyone that wasn’t really a Lightning fan,” Killorn said. “It was wild. I talked to some people that were out and about (Thursday) night, and they told me there were some Lightning chants going on in some bars. “Just walking around town, it did seem like there’s a ton of fans. They’ve been talking about this for a long time.” Cooper talked about the number of Lightning fans he saw walking down Lower Broadway, Nashville’s famous strip of bars, restaurants and music venues. “I thought I was in Tampa. It was really cool,” he said. “Are we an Original Six team? No, we’re not. But we sure do have some marquee players. And you win some Cups and people want to be around the team, and they represent and they wear our colors, and it’s super cool.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.