We’re losing at chess Putin announces move into Ukraine | Feb. 24 Vladimir Putin appears to have Donald Trump’s support and, in turn, the former Republican president has a lot of GOP backing. That neutralizes Congress from sterner responses to his aggressions. Furthermore, Putin controls a third of the European Union’s natural gas and that limits European resolve. Russia has lined up China and other markets to sell its energy if the West stops buying Russian natural gas and oil. And Russia’s financial reserves are in far better shape than the West to withstand an economic standoff. In short, we have already been outmaneuvered. Russians love chess, a game that requires thinking many moves in advance, and one has to admire how they appear to have outplayed us. From Napoleon to Hitler, invasions from the west are embedded in Russian memory, causing them to feel they need buffer states for protection from NATO. Both Russia and China feel they have been pushed around by the West and both believe it’s their turn to reclaim what they strongly feel was wrongfully taken from them. We in the West have forgotten the long past aggressions of the West while Russia and China have a long and more painful memory of their losses to the West. They seek in Ukraine and Taiwan what they feel is a rightful redress of past wrongs against them. With all that in mind, are we doing the right thing in our tough stance on Ukraine and Taiwan? James Rapp, Safety Harbor Putin is a liar Putin announces move into Ukraine | Feb. 24 The invasion of Ukraine shows two things. First, our president and intelligence services were right. For weeks they have been warning of an impending invasion and now it has happened. Second, Vladimir Putin, a man former President Donald Trump is calling a “genius,” thinks nothing of flat-out lying to the world about his intentions in Ukraine. John Skey, Bradenton Rescue us from Rick Scott Scott’s plan to ‘rescue America’ | Feb. 24 The GOP had no formal platform or agenda going into the 2020 election other than “more of the same.” Namely, more Donald Trump agenda. Now Rick Scott is starting his self promotion for national office by releasing his “American Rescue Plan.” He hopes it will “be ridiculed by the woke left.” When is mocking the other side a good look? Florida hasn’t recovered from Scott’s years as governor. His “Rescue Plan” is  just inflammatory social issue nonsense designed to fire up the hard-core right-wing base. Hopefully there are enough reasonable people who will see through this. Jeff Cutting, Brandon