NASHVILLE — From the looks of things Friday in downtown Nashville, Lightning fans will be attending Saturday night’s Stadium Series outdoor game en masse. If you’re going, here are some things you might need to know — from whether you’re allow to bring bags and blankets to the league’s interactive experiences to information on concessions and merchandise — before heading to Nissan Stadium on Saturday. NHL PreGame fan experience A free hockey festival that will include interactive games and attractions, live music, and special appearances will be open on Saturday from 1- 6 p.m. CST in Nissan Stadium’s Parking Lot R. Gates Stadium gates will open to the public at 4:30 p.m. CST. Patrons should enter through the gate displayed on their ticket. Before entering, all guests are required to go through a metal detector and have their bag checked. Mobile entry Fans are asked to download their tickets to their iPhone Wallet or Google Pay before heading to the game. Bags Fans are strongly discouraged from bringing any type of bag to the stadium to expedite entry at the gates. But clear bags that are 12″ x 12″ x 6″ or smaller will be allowed. Non-transparent bags, wallets and cases must not exceed 4.5″ X 6.5″ even if they are placed inside a larger clear bag. Non-transparent bags (4.5″ x 6.5″ or smaller) are still subject to inspection by security personnel at the gates. Blankets Blankets, jackets and coats are permissible; however, do not place them in your clear bag for inspection. Either wear or carry these items as you approach the gate. Also, hats/beanies will need to be removed for screening. Stadium concessions Nissan Stadium accepts credit card and mobile payment only, including all vendors, concession stands, bars, parking and retail locations. Cash can be converted into $20 gift cards that can be used throughout the facility at the stadium box office windows in sections 108, 309, and 338. Face coverings Face coverings are not required at Nissan Stadium, though they are strongly encouraged for everyone. Merchandise Licensed merchandise, including NHL Stadium Series jerseys, apparel, hats and other souvenirs, will be sold at retail locations inside the stadium. Parking Facility parking can be purchased through Ticketmaster. Guests can pre-purchase parking using this link. Should parking still be available on game day, it can be purchased on-site with card payments only. Public parking lots will open at 1 p.m. CST. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.