   Maybe because I long for spring training baseball, my mind takes me back to a man named Jack Leonard. In 1960, he broke his neck in a water-skiing accident in Michigan. He became a quadriplegic. Against the odds, he became a beloved baseball coach at Eckerd College. He died in 1992, exactly 30 years ago this month. He was 54. His legacy endures. For 14 years, Jack Leonard was my friend, my next-door neighbor, and the greatest man I’ve ever known. His greatness had little to do with his broken body and everything to do with the roaring spirit it contained. He was no saint. He gambled on football games, right up to the end. He almost always lost. He had an eye for pretty women. He loved a good off-color story, especially when he was sharing it with my wife! For years he chewed tobacco, one of his only pleasures. One day Jack rolled over to my house in his electric wheelchair and declared that this was the day I was to learn to chew tobacco. He gave me a wad of gum and showed me how to mix it with the Red Man, how to stick it in my jaw, and when to spit it out. He was overjoyed with my discomfort. “Oh, God,” he laughed. “Oh, God,” as my complexion turned from pink to gray to green. My children loved Jack. My daughter Alison used to go for rides on Jack’s motorized chair. One day, standing on the front edge of the chair, she grabbed the accelerator handle by mistake. The chair lurched forward. The more Jack told her to let go, the tighter she held on. Jack managed to steer toward the grass, which broke their momentum. Alison jumped off the chair, and Jack went flying onto the ground. He was willing to sacrifice himself to save Ali from injury, and he did. Jack was one of those rare people who would listen to every word you had to say. What a precious gift. The content of the discussion was not important: a struggling baseball team, a nagging wife, a peculiar neighbor, a disappointing loss, a great victory. When you were with Jack, he was with you, shining his light on you, even in his suffering. That’s what Eckerd baseball player Johnny Gunn had in mind when he wrote these words to his beloved coach Jack, whose nickname was Hoss: “It is not only the lessons in hitting that you have to offer, but it is the words of advice you give that will last a whole life through. Baseball is a game of failure, and there is nobody who realizes that more than Hoss.” Boys and young men too tough to cry poured out their feelings, fears and frustrations to Jack. Men who could not say “I love you” to their own fathers could find the words with Jack. He told me he loved me a thousand times, and each time I heard it new. He called me Hoss. Of course, he called almost everyone Hoss. And people called him Hoss. “We love you, Hoss.” “Love you, too, Hoss.” He found a way to unite us with him and with each other. He gave us all the same name. Jack knew how to handle the media. He was interviewed dozens of times. He knew what to say. It came out easy: “You can sit back and feel sorry for yourself and feel society owes you something, or you can do something for yourself. I think the good Lord feels that I can contribute more to society sitting down than standing up.” Secretly he would tell me that most reporters got it wrong. The story of the heroic person overcoming a handicap had become a cliche. “Why don’t I ever see stories in the newspaper about people in wheelchairs who are jerks?” He used a more impolite word than “jerks.” “I know a lot of people in wheelchairs,” he said, “and a lot of them are jerks.” Jack said we were all missing the real story. The hero of the real story was his caregiver, his wife Jackie. It goes like this: Once upon a time there was a 21-year-old woman named Jackie. She had a 1-year-old son named Johnnie, and she was pregnant with another, to be named Rick. One day her husband Jack broke his neck in a water-skiing accident, was in the hospital for 11 months, and became a quadriplegic, requiring her constant attention for the next 32 years. Some people know how to keep a vow. Jack could not do anything without her. He couldn’t get in or out of bed. She dressed him, fed him, chauffeured him when his motorized wheelchair couldn’t get him where he wanted to go. She drained his urine bag. We all learned how to do that. Jack Leonard and I spent the last months of his life collecting baseball cards. Topps, the card company, issued reprints of the beautiful 1953 baseball card series, now called the Archive collection. We loved the cards, the fun and challenge of building the collection, and the boyish bond it built between us. The last time I saw Jack, I delivered the cards that would complete his set of 337. He wasn’t feeling well, but he was delighted with our accomplishment. “We’ll put this on the shelf and you won’t have to worry about paying for your daughter’s college education,” he said. He was wrong, of course. Today you can buy that set for $69. Four days later, I returned to show him my Mickey Mantle card, the last one I needed to complete my set. But he was too ill to see me. Two days later he died at home, in peace, without pain, surrounded by his loved ones. When I delivered his eulogy at Blessed Trinity Catholic Church, I held up the Mickey Mantle card so Jack could see it. It’s only fitting to give Jack the last word. Here’s what he said to a reporter out on the Eckerd College baseball field, on a spring day when the Florida sun sparkled on the diamond and the infielders were full of chatter, the perfect day for spring training baseball. “You know,” he said, “I’d do this for nothing. I love it so much. I can’t ask for anything better than this. This is as close to heaven as I can get.”