Help for first responders In Tampa Bay and America, we must help police officers before they die by suicide | Feb. 16 Danny Alvarez and Andrew Baxter wrote an excellent column regarding the urgent need to address behavioral health and suicide prevention within the law enforcement community. Sadly, this issue is not limited to law enforcement. Firefighters, paramedics, EMTs and hospital staff also face similar struggles. First responders work in an extremely stressful, life-or-death environment. They are constantly exposed to some of the most horrific situations a person can experience. They are the first to respond, but they are the last to ask for help. There does need to be a culture shift within the first responder community that encourages treatment and normalizes conversations about behavioral health without consequences. However, this burden should not fall exclusively to police, fire and emergency medical providers. There are many confidential behavioral health options that exist outside of what is offered directly by the first responder’s employer. Each person should be encouraged to seek the help they need. At the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay, we have launched a confidential, statewide hotline (1-866-4FL-HERO/1-866-435-4376) that first responders and their loved ones can call 24/7 to speak confidentially with a trained specialist about their unique stress and struggles. We even provide information about helpful community resources. Anyone can learn more about this line by visiting www.LastToAsk.com. Clara Reynolds, Tampa The writer is president and CEO of the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay. Purpose in helping others National Caregivers Day Today is National Caregivers Day, an important moment to reflect on the essential role of America’s direct care professionals. I work as a Florida Mentor caregiver to individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities, and I believe this day is equally about recognizing how personalized supports and services can help people live well at home and in their communities. Whether someone needs 24/7 home-based care, a day program where they can make connections or help finding work they love, we develop a plan that considers their needs and encourages growth and independence. I find purpose in helping others. My own experience of caring for my ailing, bedridden father deepened my understanding of the role caregiving can play in helping people, even those facing unique challenges, live a fulfilling life. Nationwide, 4.5 million direct care workers support the 7.38 million adults who live with intellectual and developmental disabilities. I’m proud to contribute to that work here in Florida. President Joe Biden recently underscored the importance of caregiving in America, calling upon everyone to show caregivers “the dignity and respect that they deserve.” On this National Caregivers Day, I hope others find a moment to reflect on why caregivers do what we do and why it matters — because we believe everyone has the right to live well. Leticia Valentin, Avon Park Let the solar panels shine The attempt to stifle Florida’s booming solar industry is an attack on consumers | Column, Feb. 15 Rooftop solar panels are a technical wonder of our time. Just think how you as a homeowner can have your own mini electrical power plant to supply your home with power and to augment your power company’s power supply. One would think that the power company would welcome citizens boosting the community supply of electricity. The fair way to share the cost of this electricity would be for the solar system homeowner to be able to buy what power they need for the same price they sell their excess power to the power company. In fact, this is the formula presently used in Florida and it is called net metering. For some reason this fair trade of power has come under attack in the Florida Legislature. Senate Bill 1024 would have solar customers buy power at regular retail prices but sell their excess power from their solar panels back at only a wholesale price. Studies across the country show that individuals with solar panels contribute even more value than they receive through net metering. Economic benefits from solar customers include reduced dependence on expensive fossil fuels, reduced air pollution and reduced capital investment costs. Utility commissions in many states have reached this same conclusion. In addition, solar customers are at their own cost investing in the local power grid and assisting in power production by installing their own electricity producing solar panels. In return for trying to do something good, these customers face unfair increased costs. Rick Garrity, Lakeland The writer serves as a volunteer member of Solar United Neighbors Advisory Committee and recently retired from a nearly 40-year career as environmental scientist and director of state and local Environmental Protection offices in central Florida. Don’t execute mentally ill prisoners Florida should not execute people with serious mental illness | Editorial, Feb. 10 I agree that, as long as Florida has the death penalty, people with serious mental illness should be protected from it. Sentencing someone to death for a crime that was committed under the throes of severe mental illness symptoms is clearly unfair, unwise and unjust. More broadly, it seems time to have a conversation about whether the state should continue to have a death penalty at all. Abigail S. Ritchie, St. Petersburg