CLEARWATER — USF senior Georgina Corrick doesn’t have one of those big lists of numbers and notes wrapped around her forearm like many softball pitchers these days. Those spreadsheets that pitchers look at after their coach calls out a number corresponding to a certain pitch and placement in the strike zone. Corrick doesn’t want one, or need one. She has her catcher, Josie Foreman. Foreman, a sophomore, has done her homework on all the hitters and — after a lifetime of calling her own pitches for many softball teams — leans on instinct and feel before she calls a pitch. And she calls all of them always. “And I love it,” said USF coach Ken Eriksen, a former baseball ace (for USF 1979-82) who has coached several Olympic softball teams and for the past 24 years with the Bulls. “I have complete confidence in them. They are artists. They adjust and adapt to situations, and they have such a feel for it that it really is remarkable.” While allowing catchers and pitchers to call their own games these days is pretty rare, it isn’t for Eriksen, who has always encouraged his players to be students of the game. Corrick, in fact, has always had her catchers call her games. Last year, with Foreman stepping in as a true freshman, Corrick finished the season ranked nationally in ERA (0.98, fourth), hits allowed per game (3.68, 10th), shutouts (15, first), strikeout-to-walk ratio (6.53, 13th), strikeouts (333, fourth) and wins (24, 13th). She also threw four no-hitters, giving her six for her college career. “And I give a lot of credit for everything I do to (Foreman),” said Corrick, standing next to her catcher on Friday afternoon after she struck out nine, allowed two hits and walked one in a 7-0 victory over Notre Dame in Day Two action of the St. Pete Clearwater Elite Invitational. “She is so good. I almost never shake her off. I go with her instincts.” Foreman shrugged, modestly, and told a story about how she was “so nervous” before she called her first game last year. Corrick, who oozes confidence, quickly instilled some in her new catcher. Now the table is set for a successful season in 2022, because of Corrick and Foreman and a strong overall lineup that includes third baseman Dezarae Maldonado, shortstop Alanah Rivera, second baseman Megan Pierro, first baseman Madison Epperson and outfielders Alexis Johns and Meghan Sheehan. “The possibilities are exciting for this group,” Eriksen said. “We have some pieces that could combine to do something really special. But it’s early and we still have some things to learn.” So far, so good. USF improved to 4-1 with the victory over Notre Dame and will get another great test today when the Bulls take on Softball America’s No. 4 team, Oklahoma State, at 1:30 p.m. at the Eddie C. Moore Complex. Eriksen said he is confident his team will show up focused, a trait they displayed Friday after the team bus failed to show up at USF and the Bulls all piled into a separate cars and caravanned to Clearwater. With the softball complex sold out and parking full, the Bulls parked here, there and everywhere — even down the street near a shopping center. No worries, no problems. “They adapted like this was all part of the deal,” Eriksen said. “Not one peep of discontent. But that’s how they are.” St. Pete Clearwater Elite Softball Invitational Through Sunday, Eddie C. Moore Complex, Clearwater Today: UCLA vs. Auburn, 10 a.m. ( ESPNU); Notre Dame at LSU, 10:30 (SEC); Tennessee vs. UCF, 10:30 (ESPN+); Northwestern vs. Clemson, 11 (ACC); Michigan at FSU, 1 p.m. (ACC); Oklahoma State vs. USF, 1:30 (ESPN+); Texas Tech vs. Washington, 2:30 (ESPN+); Texas vs. UCLA, 4 (ESPNU); Michigan at LSU, 5 (ESPN+); Wisconsin vs. Clemson, 5:30 (ESPN+); Washington vs. Oklahoma State, 6 (ESPN+); UCF vs. Texas, 7 (Longhorn) More info: stpeteclearwatereliteinvite.com • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.