We need competent leadership Florida failed to pay children’s health claims | Feb. 15 Once again Florida has failed to take care of the weakest and neediest among us. A merger created software issues that caused tens of thousands of the sickest children to miss out on three months of insurance payments. Children with severe health issues and their parents were left in the lurch with insufficient money for care and treatments. This reminds me of the “glitch” with the unemployment system in Florida. Once again, people with the most needs were abandoned. I got my COVID vaccinations at a federally run FEMA site because none of the state’s registration sites worked for me. Our governor needs to do his job. It’s been Republican governorship for more than 20 years, and the damage done to this state is insurmountable — unless you’re rich or a corporation. Time for change. Jeff Cutting, Brandon It’s Congress’ fault Know the goal before committing troops — or lose the war | Feb. 15 In regards to Robert Bruce Adolph’s column, presidential overreach is a direct result of congressional dysfunction. Congress needs to get its house in order and resume its responsibilities as a functioning restraint on presidential power. Until then, American soldiers will continue to sacrifice their lives in conflicts that cannot be won. Norman Wironen, Dunedin Absent at school open house GOP pushes schools nationwide to post all class materials online | Feb. 13 Schools have held yearly open houses for decades. On those evenings in each class the teacher presents the syllabus, testing and grading system. Except in the best school systems, these open houses are generally not well attended. I’ve gone to some where, in a classroom of 25 students, there are only four parents. Interesting to think that parents who hadn’t the time or interest to give up one evening a year to attend their child’'s open house for classroom content are now all about online class materials. Julie Murphy, Sarasota Paper straw as solution We can’t save the world by ourselves | Feb. 13 Although columnist Libby Liu is right to assert that we can’t save the world by ourselves, I applaud the St. Petersburg City Council’s ban on plastic straws. After reading a few years ago about plastic straws getting suck in the nostrils of sea turtles, I bought a package of 200 paper straws, and I’ve been using them ever since. They work great. Douglas Campbell, Wimauma