Conservative lawmakers aren’t content battling with schools, local governments and private employers over sensible steps to fight COVID-19. Now Republicans in a growing number of states, including Florida, are working to restrict their medical boards from disciplining doctors that are peddling quack advice. This is another reckless slide in politicizing the pandemic, and it threatens both public health and the state’s ability to police the medical profession. A statement the Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners adopted unanimously in September said that doctors spreading COVID misinformation could jeopardize their license to practice. But before any physicians could be reprimanded, as Nashville Public Radio and Kaiser Health News reported, Republican lawmakers threatened to disband the medical board. The board voted to remove the statement from its website in response to the political pressure, but in late January, opted to stay with the policy. “We should be a source of truth,” said Dr. Melanie Blake, the president of the board, which was looking into dozens of complaints about misinformation when the controversy erupted. This backlash to truth and responsible medicine isn’t limited to Tennessee. The Federation of State Medical Boards, which created the language adopted by at least 15 state boards, is tracking Republican-initiated legislation in at least 14 states that the national nonprofit says compromises patient safety and public confidence in the medical profession. The federation reported in December that its 2021 survey of members found that two-thirds had experienced an increase in complaints that medical professionals were spreading false or misleading information. And 12 state boards had taken action against a licensed physician. “The staggering number of state medical boards that have seen an increase in COVID-19 disinformation complaints is a sign of how widespread the issue has become,” said Dr. Humayun J. Chaudhry, the federation’s president and CEO. Predictably, some Republican sponsors are defending this professional quackery by hiding behind the First Amendment. In Florida, for example, the Senate bill that would prevent the state medical boards from acting, SB 1184, is called the Free Speech of Health Care Practitioners Act. The legislation would bar Florida boards from reprimanding or sanctioning a doctor or even threatening to revoke a license unless a doctor’s advice “led to the direct physical harm” of a patient under his or her care for the previous three years. And if a case could not be proved “beyond a reasonable doubt,” the board could be liable for up to $1.5 million in damages. This legislation is meant to chill legitimate complaints as much as to protect reckless medical advice. Asserting that physicians have a free speech right to dispense dangerous nonsense obliterates the very interest of patient safety and the purpose of regulating medical professionals. Do lawyers have a free speech right to lie to their clients, judges and juries? Does the First Amendment allow accountants to cook the books, or architects to falsify engineering reports? This issue has nothing to do with free speech, but the obligation of licensed professionals to meet the standards of their industry. Doctors who tell COVID patients to drink bleach or down worm pills need to be called out, not protected from practicing reckless medicine. The damage they do hurts the profession as a whole and the strength of any public health system. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.