Danny Alvarez, a lawyer, former sheriff’s official and long-time Republican political activist, has filed to run for the state House in an east Hillsborough County district where he could face Democratic incumbent Andrew Learned. Alvarez could also face a primary. Tampa lawyer Michael Minardi is already filed to run against Learned, and there has been talk of other prominent Republican candidates. But the plans of some potential candidates, possibly including Minardi, are clouded by uncertainty by the continuing redistricting process. In any case, as a place where Republicans have a chance to flip a blue seat, it’s likely to be a hard-fought, high-profile race. Alvarez, 47, born in Miami to Cuban-exile parents, is a former Army paratrooper and a University of Florida graduate with law degrees from Stetson University and the University of Miami. He lives in Valrico and has four children. Alvarez would have to move to represent the Brandon and southeast Hillsborough district and said he has been looking for property there. He practices family law and is general counsel for the Tampa Police Benevolent Association. He formerly worked for Sheriff Chad Chronister as the chief communications officer and project manager. Alvarez ran unsuccessfully for circuit judge in 2020. He was Tampa Bay area political director for former Gov. Rick Scott’s 2014 re-election campaign and has volunteered in other GOP campaigns and with the Young Republicans. He said he’s running to “defend individual freedom and liberty.” “Florida has been lucky that Ron DeSantis has led the charge to defend individual rights” and keep the Florida economy open, he said. “But there are active forces that have tried to stop that.” The new district where Learned and Alvarez plan to run covers territory that voted for Donald Trump by 2 percentage points, according to political mapping expert Matthew Isbell. But Learned, who narrowly won his seat in 2020 in a district that leaned slightly Republican, expressed confidence. “There are likely to be other candidates, and we’ll see how it shakes out when the serious candidates get in,” he said.