PALM HARBOR — Country music star Chris Young will headline a live concert at the end of the day’s play March 19 at the Valspar PGA tournament at Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor. Young will be joined by special guests Big & Rich in a concert on the greens that will be included with that day’s admission. The PGA’s Valspar Championship kicks off a week of events at Innisbrook’s Copperhead Course starting March 14. This year’s tournament will start to feel like it did prior to the pandemic, organizers have said. Tournament director Tracy West said earlier this year that there will be no limitations on fans allowed and no mask mandates. The 2020 tournament was canceled. Last year, attendance was limited to 20-30 percent of Innisbrook’s available capacity and masks were required except while eating or drinking. The tournament had been adding more of a festival element in recent years with food trucks and sand sculptures and celebrity chefs. The concert will be on the Osprey Driving Range adjacent to the Copperhead Course after the conclusion of play at approximately 6:30 p.m. March 19. Multi-platinum country music star Chris Young will headline with a hit-packed set that highlights his 12 chart-toppers — including back-to-back No. 1s Losing Sleep, Sober Saturday Night, Think Of You and I’m Comin’ Over. The Grammy and ACM nominated vocalist landed on Billboard’s list of the top 20 country artists of the 2010s. Country duo Big & Rich is made up of William Kenneth Alphin, who is best known by his stage name Big Kenny, and John Rich. They released their first album, the triple platinum Horse of a Different Color in 2004. They remain a steady presence in country music with songs like Save a Horse (Ride a Cowboy) still getting frequent radio play. Players who have committed to the Valspar tournament include world No. 3 Dustin Johnson, No. 16 Brooks Koepka and defending Valspar champion Sam Burns. Daily tickets are $55-$70, and there are weekly tickets and packages available online at valsparchampionship.com/tickets-packages.