NASHVILLE — Even on the dampest of nights, Lower Broadway is energizing. The sound of a different live music set arrives with each series of steps during a stroll along downtown Nashville’s famous strip of bars and restaurants. Bright neon signs beckon. Even the street lights and car horns seem to have their own rhythm. As Nashville has grown into one of the country’s top entertainment destinations, it’s hard to believe that less than 30 years ago it was devoid of professional sports. Like the Tampa Bay area, it has worked to get on the pro sports map, sometimes trying to lure teams from elsewhere, other times patiently waiting for expansion. And like Tampa Bay, another fast-growing Sun Belt region, Nashville has become one of the country’s top cities for showcasing sporting events. When Nashville hosts Saturday’s Stadium Series outdoor game between the Lightning and Predators at Nissan Stadium — just across the Cumberland River but well within earshot of the clamor of Lower Broadway — it will have hosted the NHL’s three showcase events: the draft in 2003, the All-Star Game in 2016 and an outdoor game, the last of which was about a decade in the making. In the process, Nashville has shown that a nontraditional Southern market can become a hub for sports. “I think we’ve just been able to kind of keep building on each event a little bit, game by game in sports vernacular,” said Nashville Sports Council CEO Scott Ramsey. “But certainly, big events take multiple years normally to kind of plan and produce, and we’ve been able to do that cohesively as a city pretty well.” Nashville has hosted every SEC men’s basketball tournament since 2013. After Amalie Arena hosts this year’s tournament, Nashville will host the event through 2030, with an option through 2035. The city’s Bridgestone Arena in January hosted the U.S. Figure Skating Championships for the first time in 25 years. The city’s Music City Bowl and Rock ‘n’ Roll Marathon are annual staples. On May 1, Nashville SC, the city’s Major League Soccer team that has been calling Nissan Stadium home, will move into a new 30,000-seat stadium south of downtown. It will be largest soccer-only stadium in the United States and Canada. And the potential for landing a Major League Baseball team and modernizing Nissan Stadium, where the NFL’s Tennessee Titans play, have Nashville moving further forward. “Everything is bigger and better here, because they want it and expect it because of the energy from the music industry,” said Sean Henry, the Predators’ CEO and team president, and former Lightning chief operating officer. Building a dream In many ways, everything began with the building of the Predators’ home, Bridgestone Arena, on Lower Broadway in the mid 1990s. Nashville’s mayor at the time, Phil Bredesen, had a plan for investing in the downtown core. The arena was built without a tenant. Attempts to lure the NBA’s Minnesota Timberwolves and NHL’s New Jersey Devils were unsuccessful before the NHL awarded the city an expansion team in 1998. When the NFL’s Oilers left Houston following the 1996 season for Nashville (they played home games in Memphis their first season), a stadium was built for them. On Saturday, hockey will be played there for the first time. Nashville is still a young sports market, relatively speaking. As in Tampa Bay, transplants move in with their own allegiances, but the teams are starting to create history to fashion a generational fan base. “We know there’s more we can do,” Henry said. “We want to stay in this building forever. We want a 25-year-old guy who proposed to his future wife to find out how his grandfather did the same thing in this building. Broadway used to stop at our front door. Now Broadway pushes up another 10 blocks with all the development going.”    Music and sports in synergy Nashville is one of the top cities in pursuit of a Major League Baseball team. The city has a Triple-A club, the Nashville Sounds, that plays just north of Broadway, but the Music City Baseball group has its sights set on an MLB team. The group has a celebrity-filled list of supporters, including some of the music industry’s top names: Tennessee native Justin Timberlake, Darius Rucker, Luke Combs, Kane Brown, Maren Morris and Eric Church. It also has baseball advisers that include Tampa native Tony La Russa and former pitcher, agent and executive Dave Stewart. But with MLB tabling expansion talk until stadium issues in Tampa Bay and Oakland have been resolved, Music City Baseball is mobilizing until an expansion or relocation opportunity comes along. While the group has tremendous star-power support, it does not have a defined ownership group or concrete plans for a stadium. “Things are so good right now,” Henry said. “But there’s a path to making it better and bigger. And that’s what’s exciting. Whether we continue the evolution of the conversation about baseball, whether the new (football) stadium passes or not, the potential of what is coming back is really exciting.” Getting bigger and better One major sporting event that has eluded Nashville is one Tampa Bay has hosted numerous times: the Super Bowl. As the NFL steers its championship game to newer megavenues such as AT&T Stadium outside Dallas and the new SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, Calif., Nashville realizes it likely will have to upgrade Nissan Stadium to land a Super Bowl. That’s something Tampa, with Raymond James Stadium, must also must consider in competing for future Super Bowls. Nashville and the Titans have been in talks about renovations to 22-year-old Nissan Stadium as part of a larger redevelopment plan along the east side of the Cumberland River and recently have discussed whether building a new facility would be more cost effective than upgrading Nissan Stadium. A new roofed facility would help draw not only a Super Bowl but also a College Football Playoff national championship game or NCAA men’s basketball Final Four, two other big-ticket events that Nashville hasn’t hosted. Tampa Bay has also hosted the latter two. “We certainly hope to be able to compete for those,” Ramsey said. “We do feel like we’ve grown nationally into a destination for sports and entertainment. And we feel that we can host an event as good as any city in the country and wouldn’t back down from trying to pitch that. But we know we probably need a new facility to chase those specific events.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.