The first significant deadline of 2022 is nearing for the Bucs, who must reach a decision that could set off a domino effect of sorts. To which player do they apply the franchise or transition tag for the upcoming season? Or do they use it at all? Considering their assortment of free agents (a handful of whom may retire) and the salary structure of the tags, the decision could impact the roster’s equilibrium. Tag a cornerback (generally less costly than most offensive skill players), and perhaps the team saves enough money to sign a receiver to a long-term deal. Tag a receiver (a greater cap burden), and it risks the possibility of losing a defensive back or offensive lineman that finds better money elsewhere in free agency. Such are the scenarios the Bucs brass will ponder as the March 8 deadline (at 4 p.m. EST) approaches. In the meantime, we list the Bucs’ four most likely tag candidates (projected franchise-tag and market values per Spotrac.com): 1. CB Carlton Davis Projected franchise tag value: $17.3 million Projected market value: $19.6 million By far the most plausible tag candidate. Brimming with confidence and cover chops, Davis has led the team in passes defended each of the last three years, totaling six interceptions in that span. His 11 defenses in 2021 were two more than anyone else, despite his seven-game absence due to a quad injury. Because the Bucs aren’t likely to keep their whole secondary intact, retaining one of its cornerstones — and working with him on a long-term deal — seems logical. 2. S Jordan Whitehead Projected franchise tag value: $13 million Projected market value: $7.8 million Arguably the team’s most underrated player, Whitehead has established himself as a molar-dislodging box defender essential to coordinator Todd Bowles’ blitz-happy philosophy. His five tackles for loss last season led all defensive backs, but he also proved solid in coverage (two interceptions, eight passes defended). Problem is, Whitehead’s market value doesn’t approach his tag value. He’s going to get paid by someone; his film is too solid. And the Bucs may value him enough to tag him. But it still seems quite a stretch. 3. RG Alex Cappa Projected franchise tag value: $16.5 million Projected market value: $10.7 million One of the handful of small-school behemoths unearthed by the Bucs front office, Cappa has evolved into a durable interior cog during his four pro seasons, fending off 2020 playoff standout Aaron Stinnie for the starting job last year. But like Whitehead, his market value remains far shy of his franchise tag value. The Bucs simply won’t be able to afford all their free agents, meaning Cappa shapes up as a likely cap casualty. 4. WR Chris Godwin Projected franchise tag value: $18.5 million Projected market value: $18.1 million Godwin, who played under the tag in 2021, seemed destined for a long-term deal and still might get one. However, the season-ending knee injury he suffered Dec. 19 against the Saints complicated things. While the Bucs could tag Godwin again, they would have to pay him 120 percent of his 2021 salary, which comes out to north of $19 million. We see the team operating in good faith with Godwin — one of the team’s most productive and respected players — and signing him to that long-term contract that minimizes the initial base salary (and cap burden). About the franchise tag: At its essence, the franchise tag is a fully guaranteed one-year contract that allows a team to keep one of its coveted free agents. The non-negotiated salary is the average of the top five salaries at the player’s position over the last five years, or 120 percent of his previous salary, whichever is greater. About the transition tag: This is a one-year tender offer for the average of the top 10 salaries at the position (unlike the top five for the franchise tag). Additionally, the player’s original team has the right of first refusal to match any offer the player might receive from another organization. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.