TAMPA — The first three miles of the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 8K were a breeze for Dylan Nolan, despite the work he put in just one day prior to win the Classic’s 5K. The 16-year-old took the lead halfway through the first mile Sunday morning and never looked back, only increasing the strides between himself and the rest of the pack as the race went on. But as Nolan said he began to tire late in the race, he wondered what kind of lead he still had. Conveniently, a former coach who was standing in a crowd of spectators on Bayshore Boulevard let him know. It was just the motivation Nolan needed. “He shouted out ‘100 meters!’ That was really good for me to hear, because then I kind of knew,” said Nolan, a junior at Clearwater Central Catholic. “You don’t want to look back because it’ll chop your stride. He gave me that 100 meters, and I had an idea to hold the pace, because I knew they were probably hurting, too.” Nolan was first to cross the finish line for the second time in two days, winning the men’s 8K in 26 minutes, 55 seconds. Clearwater native Brittany Higgins, 37, won the women’s side, finishing in 33 minutes, 10 seconds. Sunday’s victory was a long time coming for Higgins, who has recorded two third-place finishes and one second-place finish in the same event in the last six years. “It was really hot out there, and I could tell I was really slowing down towards the end. But I hung on for the win,” said Higgins, who works as a lifeguard on Clearwater Beach while competing professionally in triathlons. “I’m just excited (the races) are back. I’ve been looking forward to getting out there again.” For Nolan, getting back out there had a bit of a different meaning after his 5K victory the day before. It also took a lot of work. Nolan said he follows a strict plan for recovery between races, including cryotherapy and wearing Normatec boots, a form of compression sleeve for the legs that massages the muscles. The strategy appeared to pay off. Nolan, who finished fourth in the 2020 8K, beat second-place finisher Eric Koenig, of Tampa, by 21 seconds. Cameron Chase, a Lutz native and Berkeley Prep alumnus, led Nolan for the first half-mile of the race, but ultimately finished third in his first Gasparilla event with a time of 27 minutes, 49 seconds. “I want to run this next year, and I’ll definitely hopefully be in better shape,” said Chase, a former college athlete who now works as a pharmacy tech in South Tampa. “The last three weeks I’ve just been cross training, so I went in with whatever fitness I had.” If Chase returns next year, he’s sure to meet Nolan at the starting line again. Nolan, who lives in Oldsmar, has participated in the Distance Classic in each of the last seven race weekends. Nolan can still clearly remember his first race, the 2015 5K, and trying to push his way through the crowd of runners to the front. Even then, he loved that “front feeling.” Nolan finished 101th in the men’s 5K that year at the age of 9. But beyond that finish, he said, the experience gave him a drive to keep coming back better. “From that first race I did, that was my goal. I was like, ‘Oh my God, I want to win that one year,’” Nolan said. “It’s just so big, it’s so positive, and it was so exciting. (I said), ‘I want to be up there one day.’”