TAMPA — Lightning equipment staff manager Colten Wilson likes to leave a mark on the team’s locker room every game day. Themed nights like Gasparilla and Hockey Fights Cancer always stand out, but Saturday’s Stadium Series game against the Predators at Nissan Stadium in Nashville is special. For years, Wilson, 28, watched other teams compete in outdoor games, taking note of the uniforms and how they read on television. He and assistant equipment managers Pat Dolan and Jason Berger knew preparing for the team’s first game outdoors would be a unique challenge. “It’s a little nerve-wracking,” Wilson said with a chuckle. The trio started working on plans for equipment and designing gear at the start of the season. They reached out to other staffs around the league to pick their brains about what works and what players have liked to see in the past. “It’s highly recommended to make the theme pop,” Wilson said. “You have to spend the money on getting some extra added things.” They ordered new skate covers, helmet bags, laundry bags, name plates and placement rugs that are in front of every player’s stall. Everything has the Stadium Series logo, of course. When it came to the jersey design, the staff wanted to hone in on details fit for a stadium-sized game, leading to an oversized lightning strike on the bottom of the bright white jerseys. The rest followed with a white Lightning logo on the pants, white gloves and white helmets. Wilson drew some inspiration from the Canadiens’ uniforms in the 2016 Winter Classic. “That’s something I feel like hasn’t been seen in hockey for a while,” Wilson said. With ongoing supply chain issues stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, Wilson didn’t want to chance delays in shipping, so everything was ordered in October. On Thursday, the day after the Lightning’s home game against the Oilers, the equipment staff will send a truck up to Nashville that is expected to arrive early that evening. The staff will immediately start setting up the locker room at Nissan Stadium to prepare for the team’s arrival Friday. Wilson said the standard stuff — gloves, blades, a glove dryer — will make the trek, but they’ll also toss in items like eye black grease (which helps reduce glare from the stadium’s lighting at night) and other apparel, like shirts and face covers, to help stay warm in the cooler temperatures. The forecast currently calls for a high of 48 and low of 32 Saturday. There is also a plan for anyone spending hours behind the team’s bench Saturday night. Themed parkas will be available along with winter hats, gloves and hand warmers. Also being packed up: four sets of jerseys for each player (one worn in warmups and then one for every period of the game), 40 pairs of gloves (with six backup emergency pairs) and 200 hand warmers. Additionally, the truck will haul two drum heaters and six fans to keep a larger football locker room — with higher ceilings and longer widths — at the right temperature for hockey players used to a much smaller area. “Football locker rooms are much larger than what we’re use to,” Wilson said. “And the heating systems are also not up to the NHL standard for what we like. We like to keep the room up to 80 or 90 degrees throughout the night to get everything all dry. …The more airflow you get the drier (the equipment).” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.