TAMPA — At this week’s City Council meeting, after it had become clear that multiple council members weren’t convinced that Mayor Jane Castor’s appointed police chief was the best choice, Castor’s chief of staff offered a warning of sorts to the council. “I can tell you that a police department that functions at this level should not go very long without a chief of police,” John Bennett said. But earlier in the meeting Thursday, Bennett acknowledged another fact: Mary O’Connor has been doing the job since Castor announced her appointment on Feb. 8. That rankled at least one council member, Chairperson Orlando Gudes, who during the meeting called it “wrong” and “unfair to this council.” Gudes said the fact that O’Connor, who retired from the department in 2016 as an assistant chief, is already doing the job without council confirmation shows the city charter needs to be changed to prevent that from happening. The exchange came about 45 minutes into a 75-minute discussion about Castor’s selection for chief. Gudes had asked Bennett and the city attorney to address the council about the appointment so members could ask questions and air their concerns and what they’re hearing from residents. Council members said they and constituents had concerns about O’Connor, the process used to select her or both. They urged her to meet with community members to try to sway public opinion before the council votes on her confirmation. Castor had appointed Ruben “Butch” Delgado to serve as interim chief after Chief Brian Dugan retired effective Oct. 1. On Jan. 26, Castor announced that Delgado was one of three finalists for the post along with O’Connor and Miami Police Department Assistant Chief Cherise Gause. At a news conference on Feb. 8, Castor announced that she had selected O’Connor, that she didn’t “expect any issues” getting confirmation from the City Council and that she hoped O’Connor could start as early as the following week. The city’s charter requires at least four of the City Council’s seven members to vote to confirm the mayor’s selection. The charter states that the mayor has 90 days after a department head post becomes vacant to appoint a replacement and submit the appointment to the council for confirmation. The council then has 15 days to confirm or reject the appointment. If the council takes no action in that time, the appointment is confirmed. Bennett told the council Thursday that the 90-day clock started on Feb. 8. Later in the meeting, Gudes asked Bennett who is running the day-to-day operations if the council has yet to confirm O’Connor. “It’s Mary O’Connor,” Bennett replied. “She was hired on Feb. 8.” “That’s a serious problem with our charter,” Gudes said. “That’s wrong. That person hasn’t been confirmed... In the public’s eye, that’s a bad policy.” City attorney Gina Grimes interjected. “You didn’t have a problem with it when it was Chief Delgado who was appointed on Oct. 1 and served as chief until Dec. 16 when he was confirmed,” Grimes said. “It’s the same situation. It’s an appointment, but within 90 days the mayor has to bring the appointment and the confirmation to this council, and that will be done.” Gudes responded that the Charter Review Commission should address the issue the next time it convenes. In an interview Friday, Council member Bill Carlson said that O’Connor’s situation is different from Delgado’s because at the time of his appointment, he was already a current city employee — an assistant chief of police. “I really like (O’Connor) as a person and she seems to be a strong leader, but I’m surprised the administration would do this without telling council in advance,” Carlson said. In emailed responses to questions from the Tampa Bay Times, Castor spokesperson Adam Smith said O’Connor “has been busy leading the police department, talking with officers, meeting with residents, examining initiatives and policies, and more since the moment Mayor Castor appointed her.” “It’s rather bizarre in a strong mayor form of government to suggest that a highly qualified woman selected as police chief by Mayor Jane Castor, who spent 31 years in law enforcement, should wait for seven men to sign off before getting to work,” Smith said. Smith said Castor expects to bring O’Connor’s appointment to the council for a vote at one of its next regular meetings, which are set for March 3 and 17. O’Connor’s annual salary is $192,920, according to Smith. At the time of her hiring, O’Connor did not have her state law enforcement certification. In an interview last week, O’Connor told the Times that her certification had expired about seven months ago and she would have to take some training classes, many of them online, and go through “practical applications of high liability areas” including the use of firearms and electroshock weapons. She said at the time that she expected to obtain the certification by the week of Feb. 20. Smith said Friday that is still the expected timetable.