ST. PETERSBURG — Mayor Ken Welch, whose social media posts have sparked speculation about the future of Albert Whitted Airport, including its potential as a location for a Tampa Bay Rays ballpark, says he does not have a specific plan for the downtown waterfront property. In a perfect world, he said, its 119 acres would be a green space extension of the city’s popular waterfront parks. It definitely wouldn’t be used for high rises or condos. “I want to see what value the airport is bringing right now and come to a decision of what the best use is for that property going forward,” he said. Welch made his comments during a news conference held Friday afternoon that his administration said was in response to multiple requests for media interviews since his social media posts late last month. He said much has changed since a 2018 economic study of the airport and called for a “broader analysis to evaluate the entire site under a variety of uses and evaluate community impact.” “What should progress look like for this publicly owned space, recognizing the history of the past 100 years, but focusing on charting the path for the most beneficial and equitable use for the citizens of St. Petersburg for the next 100 years?” he said. Welch said he’s received positive feedback for years about him questioning whether there is a better use of the site. “This has been a whispered conversation in this community for a long time. ... And frankly, folks have been afraid to bring it forward because there is a lot of pushback from our supporters in the airport. I absolutely respect that,” he said. “I am just saying we need to have the conversation. ‘When Mayor (Rick) Baker brought this forward, my daughter was a newborn. She’ll be 20 in June,” Welch said. “And I don’t want to see another generation go by without at least having the conversation of what the best use of 119 acres of public property is for the next 100 years.” Welch would not say who specifically brought up Albert Whitted Airport as a potential site for a Rays stadium in a Feb. 3 meeting he had with team executives, Pinellas County Administrator Barry Burton and Pinellas County Commission chairperson Charlie Justice. “It’s been something that’s been talked about for years,” Welch said. “The most recent meeting is just a continuation of that discussion.” Welch said there is no rush or proposed timeline or price tag for the study. He said the only reason it came up was because the City Council was due for an airport master plan update. A small group of pilots watched the news conference at City Hall and some asked their own questions, inquiring into a meeting with the mayor. “The mayor seems to be misguided,” said local pilot Rand Snell. “He seems to have sort of an animus against the airport, which I don’t understand that. It’s unfortunate.” Walt Driggers, who keeps a plane at Albert Whitted and learned to fly there in 1966, shared with the Tampa Bay Times a Feb. 8 email from the FAA to Albert Whitted officials. A Federal Aviation Administration assistant manager from Orlando said St. Petersburg received a $3.4 million federal grant last year to rehabilitate a runway. The city is bound to a 20-year agreement to operate the airport with every FAA grant it receives. “The City is bound by federal obligations for several years and we trust they are aware of this,” wrote Rebecca Henry Harper to Jack Tunstill, a pilot instructor and chairperson of the Albert Whitted Airport Advisory Committee. City Council member Ed Montanari also watched the news conference. A retired commercial pilot, he served as the chairperson of the Albert Whitted Blue Ribbon task force in 2004 and has the ear of many in aviation circles. He said the feedback he’s received on the mayor’s plans is “very negative.” “We’ve already had this community study once. How many times are we going to do this? Every 20 years?” he said. Asked if the city’s electorate is different than in 2003, when 72 percent of voters favored keeping the airport open forever in a referendum, Montanari said, “The airport’s a wonderful asset and the waterfront in St. Petersburg is sacred. I don’t think that changes.”