Waiting in a tank Russia invades | Feb. 25 The invasion of Ukraine by the Russians is right from the Cold War playbook of the 1950s and ‘60s. I was a lieutenant in a U.S. tank battalion stationed in Nuremburg, West Germany, when the Soviets and Warsaw Pact countries started massing an estimated 500,000 troops on the Czechoslovakian border in 1968. The Czechs wanted closer ties to Western Europe and the Soviet Union was not going to let that happen. Prior to the invasion, the Army supplied us with new ammunition and all the necessary parts to get our equipment 100 percent operational. NATO was not sure the invasion would stop at the West German border. My battalion’s blocking position was the Fulda Gap where we would have been a minor speed bump to the invasion of Europe. Russia knows how to run an invasion: Mass troops, go in fast and overwhelm the objective. They did not care about the consequences in 1956 in Hungary, in 1968 in Czechoslovakia or in Ukraine today. Let us hope their objective is only Ukraine. Richard Lynen, Valrico War criminals Russia invades | Feb. 25 Sanctions and red lines are meaningless to Vladimir Putin. Let’s call the invasion of Ukraine what it is — a war. And the instigators are war criminals. Calling them war criminals — subject to arrest outside of Russia — might get the attention of Putin and his cronies. David R. McNabb, Tampa, Florida A dedicated fighter Betty Sembler, anti-drug crusader and prominent GOP backer, dies | Feb. 16 Betty Sembler was a dedicated fighter for this nation and for the state of Florida. Whether it was through her service with DARE, the Drug Free American Foundation, or the Governor’s Drug Policy Task Force, she worked to make sure every young person had the chance to live the American Dream. Betty wanted to give Floridians a better future and wanted to make our communities safer. It is because of her tireless efforts that untold thousands of Americans were made aware of and avoided the dangers of drug abuse. While we mourn the loss of this tremendous leader, we must also pledge to continue her work against drug addiction. Last year, more than 100,000 Americans died due to drug overdoses, and drug addiction continues to tear families apart. We need more leaders like Betty who will dedicate themselves to keeping our families and communities safe, and who will lead with the same kind of warm and welcoming spirit she did. Betty was a dear friend of my wife, Ann, and me. We were blessed to know her and Mel for many years. She was a selfless, passionate leader and we will deeply miss her. U.S. Sen. Rick Scott, Naples