With Florida’s early growing season now coming to harvest, this is prime time for visiting U-pick farms, the pick-your-own-fruit-and-vegetable patches found in rural areas around Tampa Bay. You can grab a basket and gather your own strawberries, blueberries, tomatoes, vegetables and Florida citrus for a nice family outing that also gets you some healthy food at an affordable price. There are also opportunities to pick more unusual items, from persimmons and chestnuts to star fruit and avocados. Before heading out, make sure you have some sun protection such as hats, long-sleeved shirts and closed-toed shoes. Bring your own baskets and boxes in case the farm runs out. But most supply their own buckets that are sanitized after every use. Pack lots of water and maybe a picnic lunch. Check the farm’s Facebook page or website before heading out since most will post updates on what’s available or what has run out. The Florida Department of Agriculture maintains a list of U-pick farms on its website. Here are some Tampa Bay area favorites. Keel & Curley Farm, 5202 Thonotosassa Road, Plant City: The farm, which has expansive outdoor seating for its restaurant, has strawberries for picking at $8 per pound. Once strawberry season has ended, which is usually around late March, it transitions to a blueberry U-pick, which typically runs through May. Check the farm’s Facebook page for updates. There is a Strawberry Bash coming up Feb. 26-27 that includes U-pick access (they supply the baskets), and a Blueberry Festival is coming April 8-19 and April 15-16. Dooley Groves, 1651 Stephens Road, Ruskin: The south Hillsborough farm has more than 1,600 Honeybell trees alone among its large citrus U-pick collection. That variety means you can go more than once during the season, which runs through March, to pick your own Florida citrus. Check their website at dooleygroves.com/upick to see what they have before you go. Bob’s Berries, 11501 Winn Road, Riverview: Due to COVID-19, U-pickers must make an appointment online before stopping by this organic farm. Go to bobsberriesfl.com and click on appointments. Blueberries will be available in April and blackberries in May. 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays. 813-586-3262. Starkey Farms, 10730 Lake Blanche Drive, Trinity: The Starkey family has worked this land since 1920 and berries are their jam. Strawberries are there for the taking now and blueberries are coming in April and May, followed by blackberries. Check the farm’s Facebook page for daily updates, as U-pick availability varies. JG Ranch, 7200 Wiscon Road, Brooksville: This farm offers a variety of U-pick opportunities including strawberries, blueberries, blackberries and fresh vegetables like broccoli and lettuce. Check their Facebook page to see what is available and if they are open before you head out. Upicktopia, 19125 Phillips Road, No. 6952, Masaryktown: The 56-acre farm and winery in Hernando County offers a variety of veggies, plus strawberries, blueberries, blackberries and more throughout the growing season. Make sure to check their Facebook page before you go to see what’s available. Hunsader Farms, 5500 County Road 675, Bradenton: This huge operation has a wide variety of fruits, vegetables and flowers available to pick, along with a petting zoo and playground for an added dose of family fun. A Land of Delight Natural Farm, 2514 Leaning Pine Lane, Plant City: This farm is a family effort that has a nursery for your own home garden, and it also offers free classes on aquaponics and self-sufficiency every Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at its Farmers Market.