Making housing affordable Pushed over the edge into homelessness | Feb. 6 Thanks to Times staff writer Lauren Peace for her in-depth article telling the story of residents evicted from the Stanton Apartments in downtown St. Petersburg with but one month’s notice. The plight of these residents trying to find new affordable housing, including one with a serious medical condition who spent 25 days sleeping in her car, is heart-rending. The city is now considering a range of actions for increasing the supply of affordable housing: rent stabilization; increasing the percent of the city’s budget devoted to affordable housing; assistance to lower income home buyers; maximizing grant funding; utilization of city-owned land ranging from vacant parcels to the Trop; upzoning neighborhoods; bypass of zoning; allowing more accessory dwelling units or “tiny housing;” expanding Community Benefit Agreements; preservation of more affordable older housing stock; increasing multi-unit housing especially along major streets; both incentivizing developers and requiring that developers address affordable housing along with higher income housing, etc. As we search for the right mix of solutions, let’s not leave out the need also to seek an equitable downtown providing affordable housing, especially for those who work there. Will Michaels, St. Petersburg Arbitrary dates on abortion How Florida’s 15-week abortion bill would have hurt two of my patients | Column, Feb. 8 The Times has published two excellent commentaries, one by Dr. Rachel Rapkin and and another by Dr. Kristen Witkowski. They perfectly illustrate why the one-size fits all style of law is medically inapt. Post-hoc, several jurists on the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court have acknowledged arbitrariness. State legislatures, including our own, purport to shorten the timeline while retaining the arbitrariness of this criterion. Medicine will continue to nudge definitions of viability. Fortunately, despite the chronic uproar, we are talking about small numbers. The vast majority of unwarranted pregnancies are prevented — or medically, rather than surgically, aborted early on, not unlike commonplace spontaneous abortions. A legislative focus on bolstering these front-end services, now greatly lacking, would reduce the numbers at the back end further and enable a crucial differentiation between abortion as birth control and abortion as a medical decision left in the hands of physicians and their patients. Anything goes and nothing goes are the sort of choices only lawyers like. Pat Byrne, Largo Patching a problem Progressive cuts 56K Fla. home policies | Feb. 9 As a Homeowners’ Association board member in a maintained community, we have been facing this “insurance problem” for a number of years. Our developer included roof maintenance, repairs and replacements in our governing documents for over 250 homes. As typical they kept the monthly fees low to attract buyers and left the total roofing reserves at less than $100,000 when they turned over the community 20 years ago. We have increased the monthly fees for roofing since then while doing maintenance and repairs and planning the replacements, which have now been underway for four years. It will take us millions of dollars to replace all roofs. The biggest stumbling blocks are the insurance companies that keep raising rates and threatening to cancel policies. Even when we explain the HOA roofing responsibilities to them, they do not budge. We have questioned why shingle companies such as Owens-Corning and GAF would manufacture shingles with 30 or more years of useful life if insurers are now pushing for a 15- to 20-year replacement cycle. Florida insurance costs are already extremely high and not just for homeowners but for all types of coverage and just try collecting on a claim. We have cautioned our owners to not allow any “roofing” scammers on their roofs since the HOA takes care of them. All the Legislature can do is mess up a bad situation as they have done in the past with “corrective laws.” Dale Gottschalk, Hudson Yearning for the truth Why does anyone care what Ben and Jerry’s, Whoopi Goldberg and Joe Rogan think? | Feb. 9 Early in life we learn best from the ones who tell us the truth. Mom and dad gave it to me straight. I learned early on that often Grandpa was spoofing me. And to this day the hair on the back of my neck tingles at the phrase, “This is for your own good.” Truth was always right and occasionally painful. This column by Max Boot queries why we bother listening to the ramblings of social celebrities. In lieu of good journalism we gravitate to the first talking head willing to pander to a frail intellect. In related news, we watch the sinking of the good ship MSNBC, where I believe Rachel Maddow succumbed to corporate pressure to solely decry Donald Trump for four years. Had that not happened, maybe she and her network might not be scrambling for the lifeboat. If the truth is black and white, how come we gravitate to grayscale-speak of idiots? The media might be wise to examine the market. Many hunger for the truth but are fed garbage. Mark Campbell, St. Petersburg One person, one vote The National Popular Vote compact makes every ballot count | Feb. 6 It is very important that “we the people” give this column on the National Popular Vote consideration. Two presidents in the last generation lost the popular vote but won the Electoral College to become president: George W. Bush and Donald J. Trump. The Electoral College’s original purpose was to protect the political voice of the smaller states from that of the larger states when the United States totaled 13 states. This original purpose has been subsumed now that the United States totals 50 states, and the smaller (rural) states are protected by having two senators each, despite their small size. The total population of seven western states with 14 senators is less than the population of California with only two senators. It is past time to put the election of our presidents in step with today’s political structure where the votes of all “we the people” count. Robert Whitener, Brooksville