NASHVILLE — On a normal Lightning game night at Amalie Arena, Gary Smith sits on his cushioned high back stool inside the arena’s freight elevator. It’s been his home at work for the past four years, as he’s watched every home game on the 24-inch monitor inside the elevator, answering every beck and call to help keep game nights running. But his busy job has prevented him from seeing a game in person. That will change Saturday night, as Smith will watch the Lightning play in person for the first time. He will join about 65,000 other fans in the Nissan Stadium stands for the Stadium Series game against the Predators. “It’s so exciting,” said Smith, 78 of Tampa, a Plant High alumnus. “I’ve been looking forward to this.” On most game nights, Smith makes hundreds of runs among Amalie’s seven floors from 3:30 p.m. until 45 minutes after the game ends. For the arena staff, it’s the only way to move big objects between floors, so there’s never a break. The elevator, about the size of a single-person dorm room, carries some of the most important people in the hockey world — including players, general managers and other team personnel — every night. It also assists with parts of the game night experience fans don’t see, such as trash removal or delivering food to the suites. The loud elevator call and lingering smells might deter others, but not Smith, who proudly shows off the callous on his right thumb from his constant button-pushing. Before becoming “Mr. Freight Elevator,” Smith worked in security for five years. However, an accident in 2018 made it difficult for him to walk far distances or stand for extended periods of time. When he returned to work, he found a new post as the elevator operator. The job isn’t glamorous, but it’s worthwhile for Smith. The best part is getting to build relationships with others who work in the building. People vent about their problems or share their joys. He even has prayed with staffers a time or two. “I would almost work for free,” Smith said. “I get a lot of pleasure out of meeting and talking to people. I love my job.” The relationships have helped him build memories, making a game like Saturday’s all the more meaningful after spending so much time watching from afar. Smith made the trip with a couple of other arena workers. It had been a while since he’d taken a vacation, and he wanted to do something special. He’s most excited to see Brayden Point play in person. Smith has been amazed watching the 5-foot-10 All-Star center over the years and expects to be even more astounded on Saturday as he sits in the 100s level. “If they gave me a million dollars to skate across the rink, I couldn’t do it,” Smith joked. “His skating abilities (are incredible)... I like his fire.” When the Lightning score a goal, Smith screams in excitement from inside the elevator at the press box level. Saturday in Nashville, he won’t cheer alone. “Being around a crowd that’s pro-Lightning and sharing that experience with people,” Smith said, “will be amazing.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.