CLEARWATER — Every year as she walks through the Eddie C. Moore Complex, Michele Smith takes in the hustle and bustle around her. Fans cheer, bats  clang as they make contact with bright yellow balls, cleats pound across clay. She notices the smiles from fans who have traveled from around the country to watch some of the nation’s top softball players up close at the St. Pete Clearwater Elite Invitational. The sights and sounds take her back to her pitching days — at Oklahoma State alumnus and as a two-time Olympic gold medalist — and remind her that the next generation of players sit in these same stands. It’s Smith’s favorite part of the invitational, an annual four-day tournament. Having spent much of her life dedicated to growing the game of softball, she’s looking forward to having that warm feeling, again when the tournament gets underway Thursday. Before 2019, the event was known as the Michele Smith Pediatric Cancer Invitational. Now, it’s grown into a must-see competition that ESPN broadcasts nationally through its various streaming platforms. “It is very humbling,” said Smith, 54, of Treasure Island, the tournament’s facilitator. “The thing that I love so much is the teams behind the teams — the people, the grounds crew with the City of Clearwater, the Parks and Recreation Department with the City of Clearwater — the people that are just so involved behind the scenes. ... There are so many people that are invested in this tournament to pull it off. I’m so proud of that.” Now in its third year, the tournament will welcome thousands of fans from 49 U.S. states and Canada. Seeing the event sell out its advance tickets for the third time was a welcome sight for Smith and ESPN coordinators after last year’s tournament had to be canceled due to the pandemic. “We are drawing people from all over the country and outside of the country to this event and Clearwater,” said Kristen Shaver, the director of events at ESPN. “You feel the pressure to create an experience for them where they can walk away from it saying, ‘Wow, that was awesome. We want to come back, again.’” Clearwater will host nine of Softball America’s top-25 Division I teams: No. 3 UCLA, No. 4 Oklahoma State, No. 5 FSU (last season’s NCAA runnerup), No. 11 Texas, No. 14 Clemson, No. 18 Michigan, No. 19 LSU, No. 21 Tennessee and No. 25 UCF. The talent on display is what Smith and tournament and television coordinators believe makes the event one of the strongest tournaments in the country. The weekend will wrap up with Sunday’s must-see matchup between UCLA and FSU, airing on ESPN for the at-home audience. “That one’s going to be awesome,” said Smith, who will be one of two analysts that night, alongside Amanda Scarborough and play-by-play caller Beth Mowins. Smith and tournament and television coordinators know how much the sport has grown because they’ve witnessed it first-hand. According to a Front Office Sports report from March of 2020, “ESPN saw a 40 percent increase in regular-season college softball viewership (in 2019).” It’s why every pitch matters at this invitational — so much so that every game will be aired on one of ESPN’s platforms (ESPNU, ESPN2, ESPN+, SEC Network, ACC Network or the Longhorn Network). “I believe you have to show it to grow it,” said Meg Aronowitz, a senior coordinating producer at ESPN who oversees the network’s softball coverage. “That’s how you capture people, because I believe if you put a product on the air that people are captivated by, they’re going to stay.” Since the tournament’s start, organizers have learned to adjust to make the most of the space they have at Eddie C. Moore. Every square inch matters, whether it be space for the athletes to warm up, areas for fans to test out new equipment or room for production crews to get the right camera shot. Advanced tickets have switched from tournament-long to daily so guests can max out on the opportunities in case they can’t make it out for one of the days. With the invitational’s year-round planning, Shaver said teams always are reaching out to see if there’s additional room in the field to compete. Organizers are determined to continue improving the tournament’s experience for fans and teams over the next five years. Smith hopes Clearwater can work toward a new stadium to serve as the centerpiece of the complex and bring more attention to softball on the west coast of Florida. It would create  opportunities to host international tournaments, as well as high school state championship games in front of 5,000 or more fans. “I think it’s the perfect environment,” Smith said. “We just need the stadium to give (the complex) the big-league feel that the sport deserves.” Regardless of whether a stadium is built, though, Smith believes Clearwater is a forever home for the sport. “We’re very proud of that,” she said. “When you say Clearwater, I think people do think about our beaches, but now Clearwater’s becoming synonymous with really good softball.” St. Pete Clearwater Elite Softball Invitational When/where: Thursday-Sunday, Eddie C. Moore Complex, Clearwater Thursday: Notre Dame vs. Tennessee, 10 a.m. (ESPNU); Texas Tech vs. Auburn, 12:30 (SEC); UCF vs. Wisconsin, 1 (ESPNU); Texas Tech vs. Clemson, 3:30 (ACC); Tennessee vs. FSU, 4 (ESPNU); Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, 6:30 (ESPN+) Friday: Michigan vs. Oklahoma State, 10 a.m. (ESPNU); Northwestern vs. Texas Tech, 10:30 (ESPN+); Auburn vs. Wisconsin, 11:30 (ESPN+); Washington vs. Tennessee, 12:30 (SEC); UCLA vs. Northwestern, 1 (ESPN+); Texas vs. FSU, 1 (ESPNU); USF vs. Notre Dame, 3 (ACC); UCF vs. Michigan, 3 (ESPN+); LSU vs. Oklahoma State, 4 ( ESPNU); Auburn vs. Texas, 4; UCF vs. Texas Tech, 6 (ESPN+); Tennessee vs. Clemson, 6; (ESPN+); Washington vs. LSU, 7 (ESPN+) Saturday: UCLA vs. Auburn, 10 a.m. ( ESPNU); Notre Dame at LSU, 10:30 (SEC); Tennessee vs. UCF, 10:30 (ESPN+); Northwestern vs. Clemson, 11 (ACC); Michigan at FSU, 1 (ACC); Oklahoma State vs. USF, 1:30 (ESPN+); Texas Tech vs. Washington, 2:30 (ESPN+); Texas vs. UCLA, 4 (ESPNU); Michigan at LSU, 5 (ESPN+); Wisconsin vs. Clemson, 5:30 ( ESPN+); Washington vs. Oklahoma State, 6 (ESPN+); UCF vs. Texas, 7 Sunday: Texas Tech vs. LSU, 9 a.m. (SEC); Northwestern vs. Oklahoma State, 9:30 (ESPN+); Washington vs. Clemson, 10 (ESPNU); Notre Dame vs. Texas, 11 (ESPN+); Wisconsin vs. UCLA, noon (ESPNU); Auburn vs. USF, noon (ESPN+); UCF vs. Florida Stae, 12:30 ( ESPN+); USF vs. Wisconsin, 3:30 (ESPN+); UCLA vs. FSU, 7 (ESPN) Tickets: Advance tickets sold out, some walkups available; $30 per day More info: stpeteclearwatereliteinvite.com Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.