Coach-assisted CPR TeleCPR will save lives When there is an emergency, we know to dial 911. The dispatchers have the unique opportunity to help callers as they wait for first responders to arrive. Cardiac arrest is a leading cause of death, with more than 350,000 out-of-hospital cardiac arrests occurring each year in the United States. It strikes suddenly and without warning, and what happens in the first few minutes can mean the difference between life and death. CPR can double or triple a person’s chance of survival. With EMS response times being slower in many rural areas, the need for CPR to be initiated prior to EMS arrival is even greater. Dispatcher-assisted CPR has been shown to significantly increase bystander CPR rates and cardiac arrest survival. The dispatchers can coach callers with real-time, step-by-step instructions, enabling callers to become lifesavers while awaiting EMS arrival. It has the potential to increase the chances of a bystander to step-in and perform CPR by 15%. Real experiences also show that even trained bystanders may need coaching during this difficult and often frantic time. Even those without previous CPR knowledge can quickly be instructed. Dispatcher-assisted CPR is an effective and low-cost strategy to improve cardiac arrest survival, yet it is underutilized. Dispatchers can and should be trained to provide CPR instructions to bystanders and our goal is to ensure all dispatchers receive this training. More comprehensive implementation of CPR pre-arrival instructions has the potential to save numerous lives each year. Robert Sanchez, St. Petersburg The writer, a medical doctor, is on the American Heart Association Southeast Board of Directors. What happened to me Florida House Democrats, Republicans clash over ‘CRT,’ ‘don’t say gay’ bills | Feb. 23 I was horrified upon hearing that the “don’t say gay bill” may be implemented in schools across Florida. I am part of the LGBTQ community and went through Florida public schools, and I had firsthand experience with blatant homophobia and bigotry. Receiving hatred for something I didn’t completely understand about myself yet was extremely difficult for a child to undergo. I had friends in high school who, if outed, would face abuse or neglect from their families, resulting in severe cases of internalized homophobia and suicidal thoughts. I believe that implementing such a hostile bill will result in an entirely new culture of alienating the LBGTQ community, and creating dangerous environments for already suffering youth. Chloe Berry, Safety Harbor Read the bill Florida House Democrats, Republicans clash over ‘CRT,’ ‘don’t say gay’ bills | Feb. 23 There has been a great deal of ink spilled over this piece of legislation, HB 1557 — Parental Rights in Education. Allow me to quote from the text of the bill: “Classroom instruction by school personnel or third parties on sexual orientation or gender identity may not occur in kindergarten through grade 3 or in a manner that is not age appropriate or developmentally appropriate for students in accordance with state standards.” And further: The bill “does not prohibit a school district from adopting procedures that permit school personnel to withhold such information from a parent if a reasonably prudent person would believe that disclosure would result in abuse, abandonment or neglect.” We didn’t start sex education until my sixth grade; frankly we weren’t exactly mature enough for it then. I would like to hear why its necessary, or desirable, to introduce such a subject to a 5-year-old. Robert Bennett, Valrico I’m a walking statistic Florida House Democrats, Republicans clash over ‘CRT,’ ‘don’t say gay’ bills | Feb. 23 I’m a student at Florida Atlantic University, and I oppose the “don’t say gay” bill. As a queer Latino, I am a walking statistic. I’ve gone through early exposure to porn, the confusion stage, difficulties at home related to my sexual orientation and mental health issues. The list goes on. Over the years, I’ve realized the root of the issue has been that “I’m different” and that simple fact led to bullying from my peers and adults. I bring up my personal experience to make a point: I’m not alone. More than a handful of queer children live through the same experience and even now, there may be a 7-year-old who is “different” and does not understand why they get treated differently and begin to question every part of their being. This bill aims to limit the discussion of gender identity and sexual orientation, and while the bill is written with the excuse of giving more parental control, I believe its main goal is to “shelter” children from the real world and from real people. Jair Flores Gonzales, Greenacres How we got here Why this Tampa mother supports banning abortion at 15 weeks | Column, Feb. 19 My wife and I voted Democratic since we became U.S. citizens. Our Christian beliefs hold social justice as the first manifestation of brotherly love. We believe that to try to forcefully close abortion clinics without promoting common welfare is a form of prevarication. We know that abortion is a vexing issue for most Americans. Probably there is support for abortion as the lesser of two evils, but it’s not helpful when vehement feminists tried to promote abortion as an inalienable human right. Now we’re left with a Supreme Court whose majority is apparently ready to reverse Roe v. Wade. Lodovico Balducci, Tampa