NASHVILLE — The Lightning’s outdoor game Saturday night was a monumental moment for an organization that has had more on-ice success than any other over the past two seasons. But it was just as much about sharing the experience with family and fans. If the game couldn’t be held in Tampa, Nashville was the perfect location for the Lightning’s outdoor debut, a place close enough geographically and entertaining enough to draw a large number of Tampa Bay fans. “They were absolutely buzzing,” forward Pierre-Edouard Bellemare said after the 3-2 win over the Predators at Nissan Stadium. “I wasn’t expecting such a big answer from the Tampa fans, so I’m very proud. A lot of people showed up, and that made it even more awesome.” From the moment the Lightning landed in Nashville, they were taking selfies with fans downtown, something that continued after the game, when the team celebrated its win on Lower Broadway, the city’s entertainment hub. “We haven’t really gone out as a team yet,” forward Pat Maroon said after the game and before he was captured on social media on top of a bar singing along to The Killers’ Mr. Brightside. “So (Saturday night), we’ll have that connection. All our wives and girlfriends are in town, too. So that makes it special to have family here: moms, dads, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles. So they’re going to see what we’re all about and how close we really are.” Coach Jon Cooper is cognizant of potential distractions, and the Lightning have shown the ability to block out outside noise in the biggest moments. Saturday began with the Lightning sharing their team breakfast meal with their families. “We’re in this to share with other people,” Cooper said. “So to have your kids around in moments like this when they idolize their fathers, there’s no better time to share the game day with them. But for the guys, it’s important that families really got to be as close to this game as possible without actually having a kid suit up for us.” As fans from both teams lined the entrance to the stadium three hours before the opening puck drop, the Lightning arrived in a tractor-driven party wagon wearing denim-on-denim Canadian tuxedos, cowboy hats and boots. “Everybody went all in. This is kind of what you want,” Bellemare said. “I was really like, ‘All right boys. Let’s go have, like, a Canadian tuxedo look.’ But there was no talk about how much or how extensive you could go with it. I felt like everybody delivered right. This is a sign of a team where there’s nobody being bigger than the team.” Once the puck dropped to start the game, the Lightning got down to business. Trailing 1-0 in the second period, they scored two power-play goals to take the lead, and then a familiar Steven Stamkos one-timer from the left circle ended up being the winner in the third. After a physical game, the teams exchanged handshakes — a routine usually reserved for the end of playoff series but has been adopted for outdoor games — and Cooper received congratulations from country music artist Dierks Bentley, who played a set during the first intermission. The Lightning came home as big winners, with more than just another two points. “We went from (Friday night) to having a really fun practice and all the families on the ice, (Saturday) morning, having breakfast with your family and the kids, and then you get to the rink,“ Stamkos said. “I just think this team really has that ability to just flip that switch and say, ‘It’s game on now. Let’s go out there and do our thing.’ “And I thought this was a great game. Both teams played great, but it was one of our (best) solid 60-minute efforts that we’ve had this year and on that stage.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.