It is hard to imagine that heroes need saving. Unfortunately, that’s the truth today in American law enforcement, and the toll is measured in funerals and broken families. The strains on mental health that lead to the rising number of police suicides are a real enemy and need to be treated as seriously as every other threat. Recently, Hillsborough County Deputy Abigail Bieber was murdered, and her killer took his own life. She was a bright star to everyone who knew her, and her light was extinguished too soon. But this case resonated in other ways. The victim and her killer were both cops. There have been two suicides in as many months at the same agency and Deputy Bieber’s was the third murder-suicide committed by one of its officers in a three-year period. This doesn’t include cops who were stopped from harming themselves. And this is at an agency that is actually working hard to address mental health issues in its ranks. In 2021, there were 153 active police officer suicides in the United States. That number is down some from 2019 and 2020 — both of which saw twice as many suicides than line-of-duty fatalities. The suicide statistics don’t account for retired officers or emergency dispatchers. Both groups are often overlooked but shouldn’t be. How do we know? We’ve seen it ourselves. Andrew, who recently retired as a cop after nearly three decades, has struggled with suicide himself. Law enforcement officers regularly confront horrific situations that are hard to process. When you identify the area where you live by recognizing the sites of tragedies you’ve responded to, you realize just how much devastation you have experienced. It is not normal. Many officers won’t talk to family members about it. Cops are inherent protectors and want to insulate their families most. There also are policies against sharing information about cases. How do law enforcement agencies address these issues? The sad truth is that most do not. The command staff that touts mental health is the same command staff that punishes people for speaking out. Supervisors have an obligation to check their officers for fitness, and those who admit being mentally overwhelmed are pulled from duty. Other officers see that and fear they will be labeled mentally unstable by reaching out for help. And officers can’t really talk to each other, either. No one wants to seem weak or be a burden on someone who is often silently suffering as well. Between the frequent exposure to trauma, the perception they must be perfect, an unforgiving public and the seeming lack of places to turn to for help, it seems there are few alternatives. Prescription drugs, alcohol and, sadly, suicide, frequently become the self-help options of choice. We don’t know what all the answers are, but we do know it starts with recognizing the problem and knowing what we are doing now isn’t working. Telling someone that “this is what you signed up for,” isn’t valid and we are sick of hearing it. No one signed up to be traumatized. Families certainly didn’t sign up for it either. Law enforcement administrators need to understand that they don’t understand. They also need to stop silencing those who do. We must create an environment that acknowledges that the effects of trauma are real. Admitting vulnerability and asking for help should be celebrated as a sign of strength. Cops have to express what they’re feeling. They have to SAY IT OUT LOUD. Whenever something happens, get in the habit of talking it through. It doesn’t matter how many bad things you see; you don’t get used to it. Talk about it. The more we do that, the more commonplace that habit will get. Don’t keep the trauma bottled up. With every officer who succumbs to the demons in their heads, we each lose a piece of ourselves. We can’t afford to lose any more. Andrew Baxter is a retired police lieutenant with nearly three decades of experience in the profession. He is on Instagram as @drew_breasy Danny Alvarez is the general counsel of the Tampa Police Benevolent Association and the former Chief Communications Officer at the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office.