We have another attack on freedom from the Florida Legislature this session, this time targeting our children. Instead of tackling the many important issues that truly affect Floridians’ lives, our state’s Republican leaders, including Gov. Ron DeSantis, are more focused on propping up false boogeyman tactics to create partisan uproar, this time by stifling what our children can learn about our country’s history. The so-called “anti-woke” bill would expose our schools and teachers to litigation if a student is made to feel “discomfort” or “guilt.” Instead of investing in pocketbook issues –– like expanding Medicaid or fixing our state’s affordable housing issue –– it appears the governor would rather create division around what our kids should learn about slavery, civil rights and other key factors in our country’s history. Guilt and discomfort are feelings not always grounded in fact; this legislation, CS/HB 7, opens the door to lawsuits by angry, misguided parents, and it would make it less likely that teachers feel license to talk openly about the darker periods in our country’s history. It is ironic that DeSantis loves to talk about Florida as a “beacon of freedom” when his recent actions, whether to dictate what our children learn or to stop his Department of Health from publishing factual information, are increasingly authoritarian moves that crush free speech. The only “cancel culture” that is truly in effect here is these politicians’ blatant attempts to cancel our children’s ability to receive a proper education in this state. This is not an anti-“woke” bill; this bill is anti-fact, anti-democracy and anti-children. It’s no surprise that another pair of bills this session — Senate Bill 1834 and House Bill 1557 — would curb teachers’ ability to educate students about sexual orientation and gender identity. These bills couch their language in the idea that there should not be discussion in primary school classrooms about these topics that is not “age-appropriate” or “developmentally appropriate,” but the vagueness of the legislation would likely open the door for older students to lose the ability to hear anything remotely related to these topics. More than that, the bill addresses an issue that doesn’t exist: I’m unaware of any developmentally inappropriate materials even being taught in our classrooms. Creating stipulations and laws policing what our teachers can teach, and what students can learn, will stifle free speech, and it creates a window for even worse censorship. If DeSantis and Republican legislators succeed this session and pass this misguided legislation, what’s next? Should our teachers not teach evolution because some parents want their children to learn only through a creationist lens? While we all believe that parents should have a role in their children’s education, that does not mean the state should be limiting what teachers can teach the youth about our country’s history. It is an unreasonable and illiberal standard to claim that our many educators and learning institutions should be held hostage to the beliefs of only a handful of individuals. At a deeper level, it seems that DeSantis and his fellow Republicans misunderstand the point of education. Learning, in general, is not about having your prior assumptions about the world confirmed for you — it’s about having those assumptions challenged by the realities around you. As one conservative thought leader likes to say, “Facts don’t care about your feelings.” Regardless of what these politicians might believe, race and gender are very real, and so are racism and homophobia. The only way to create a better future and heal these divisions in our society is through knowledge. When we start to substitute the feelings of a few for the facts of the world and country we live in, that’s not an education — that’s propaganda. Julee Garcia is program director at For Our Future Florida, a progressive advocacy group.