Tentatively retired quarterback Tom Brady received no parting gift Thursday night when the NFL’s most prominent individual awards were passed out during its annual honors show. Packers counterpart Aaron Rodgers was named NFL Most Valuable Player for the second straight year and fourth time overall. Rams receiver Cooper Kupp, who earned the NFL triple crown by leading the league in receptions (145), receiving yards (1,947) and touchdown catches (16) in the regular season, was named Offensive Player of the Year. The Brady snub capped an awards night in which the Bucs were blanked in all the major categories. Brady himself was the only Tampa Bay award recipient of any kind, being named the FedEx Air Player of the Year. Ring of Honor member and three-time All-Pro Ronde Barber, a five-time semifinalist for the Pro Football Hall of Fame, again was bypassed. Eighth-year receiver Mike Evans, nominated for the Walter Payton NFL Man of the Year Award a third consecutive year, lost out to Rams tackle Andrew Whitworth. On Wednesday, Broncos tight end Andrew Beck, a Plant High alumnus, received the Salute to Service Award, for which Bucs Pro Bowl center Ryan Jensen had been nominated. That award recognizes exceptional effort to honor and support members of the military community. The selection of Rodgers over Brady — by a league-wide media panel assembled by the Associated Press — will serve as deliberation fodder for weeks and months to come. At 44, Brady started all 17 regular-season games, leading the NFL in passing yards (5,316), touchdown passes (43) and attempts (719), while directing the Bucs to a franchise-record 13 victories. His five game-winning drives (defined as an offensive scoring drive in the fourth quarter or overtime that puts his team ahead for good) were three more than Rodgers totaled. Rodgers, who started 16 games, had a slightly better completion rate (68.9 to Brady’s 67.5) and threw four picks to Brady’s 12, but attempted 188 fewer regular-season passes. NFL award winners Man of the Year: LT Andrew Whitworth, Rams Most Valuable Player: QB Aaron Rodgers, Packers Offensive Player of the Year: WR Cooper Kupp, Rams Defensive Player of the Year: LB T.J. Watt, Steelers Offensive Rookie of the Year: WR Ja’Marr Chase, Bengals Defensive Rookie of the Year: OLB Micah Parsons, Cowboys Coach of the Year: Mike Vrabel, Titans Comeback Player of the Year: QB Joe Burrow, Bengals Salute to Service Award: TE Andrew Beck, Broncos Art Rooney Sportsmanship Award: WR Matthew Slater, Patriots Fan of the Year: Henry Ison, Falcons season-ticket holder since 1971 • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.