ST. PETERSBURG — There are better things to be first in, but with pitcher Josh Fleming sidelined by a right oblique strain, the Rays now have a majors-most 16 players on the injured list. Fleming felt some tightness while pitching Monday against the Red Sox, and manager Kevin Cash said they are hoping that by removing him from the game they prevented him from missing extended time. His late Tuesday afternoon MRI will tell them more. “Anytime an oblique (issue) pops up, we’ve talked about them before, they’re tricky,” Cash said. “Some of them show the hot spot on the MRI. Some of them don’t show anything. So I won’t have a good assessment until a doctor looks and at least gives a certain grade on it. … “I’m hoping it’s not going to be several weeks, (given) the fact that he was pitching. He felt it kind of gradually starting to tug and tug.” Fleming had been called up to fill in for injured starter Jeffrey Springs by working behind an opener. The Rays will need someone else to fill in on Saturday, and that appears to be Ryan Yarbrough, who was lifted from his Tuesday start for Triple-A Durham after two perfect innings. Tuesday, Fleming was replaced on the active roster by reliever Ralph Garza, who was last with the Rays on July 2 in Toronto. Also, reliever Luke Bard, who worked three innings Monday and got the win, was sent down and Tommy Romero, who made two April appearances for the Rays, was called up from Triple-A Durham. Romero, who said he “was in shock” when told of his recall Monday night, has made some mechanical changes that led to a slight increase in velocity. Cash said Romero will provide multi-inning coverage from the bullpen if needed. ‘Clean procedure’ for Wander Franco Surgery by Dr. Doug Carlan to remove and repair the broken hamate bone in shortstop Wander Franco’s right hand Tuesday morning went well. “Dr. Carlan expressed that it was a pretty clean procedure, so encouraged by that,” Cash said, “Now we’ll take a couple weeks; not much you can do until you get the stitches or sutures out and then he’ll be reassessed.” The big 1-0 for Corey Kluber Corey Kluber worked six strong innings for the win on Tuesday; Wednesday also will be a big deal as he reaches the 10-year service time mark in the majors. “Definitely cool,” Kluber said. “Ten years is a long time, and to look back on where I started out 10 years ago and where I am now, a lot of cool things happened in between.” Miscellany The Rays logged their 14th come-from-behind win and are 6-2 against the Red Sox, who are 11-22 vs. AL East teams and have not won any of the 10 series. ... Brandon Lowe (low back) went 3-for-4 and played seven innings at second base for Durham on Tuesday as he continues his rehab assignment with the potential to rejoin the Rays on Saturday or Sunday. ... Christian Bethancourt, acquired Saturday from Oakland, made his first start, catching Kluber for six innings and getting praise for his quick transition and work. “It looked really seamless,” Cash said. ... Reliever David McKay, who was designated for assignment Saturday to make room for Bethancourt, was claimed off waivers by the A’s. ... Harold Ramirez has reached base in 10 of his last 15 plate appearances. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.