ST. PETERSBURG — Wander Franco will have surgery Tuesday to repair a broken hamate bone in his right hand, manager Kevin Cash said. That will sideline the Rays shortstop anywhere from five to eight weeks. Cash said Monday that he knew the diagnosis “was coming” following initial X-rays in the Cincinnati clubhouse, and Dr. Doug Carlan confirmed it two days later. Franco exited Saturday’s game after a swing caused discomfort in his first at-bat. Additionally, Kevin Kiermaier — who just returned to the lineup during the Rays’ recent road trip — will be “down for some time,” Cash said. The outfielder is scheduled to visit a hip specialist in Nashville, a trip that will determine his next steps. Cash read the ailments from a handwritten list before Monday’s series opener against the Red Sox — the recent additions blending with the ones following them all season — but his sheet of paper also included reinforcements that could return soon. Brandon Lowe will play second base for Triple-A Durham Tuesday and Wednesday, and he’ll serve as the designated hitter Thursday. From there, the Rays plan to evaluate what’s next, which could include a return before the All-Star break. Reliever Pete Fairbanks will throw in consecutive games with Durham on Wednesday and Thursday, too, Cash said. Catcher Mike Zunino, who hasn’t played since June 9, underwent neck treatment Monday to address tingling between his shoulder and finger. Cash said they’re waiting to see Zunino’s response to the treatment. “(Zunino’s) still working, trying to get back as quick as possible,” Cash said. In other pitcher recoveries, Nick Anderson will throw live Tuesday with the goal of making a Florida Complex League appearance July 26, while Yonny Chirinos and Brendan McKay are scheduled to make FCL outings Saturday. Additionally, Luis Patiño played catch Monday with the hope of throwing off a mound within the next three days, Cash said. Bethancourt arrives Catcher and first baseman Christian Bethancourt, acquired from Oakland over the weekend, joined the Rays Monday and will likely catch Corey Kluber’s start Tuesday, Cash said. Bethancourt hasn’t caught since June 23, but he worked pregame on pop-ups behind the plate — learning to navigate the catwalk — before moving to the bullpen. When he wasn’t catching in Oakland, Bethancourt said he still caught bullpens and conducted drills around his work for other positions. That balance should allow Bethancourt to slot into the lineup behind the plate — or at another position like first base — without an issue, he said. “I feel like these are the kind of trades that our front office usually nails,” Kluber said. When Oakland manager Mark Kotsay called Bethancourt into his office Saturday, Bethancourt thought he had been designated for assignment. Then he found out about the trade and was shocked. “Kind of sad leaving my teammates and a great group of guys over there, but happy to be here and happy to be on a team that is contending and needs my abilities on the field to help them win ball games,” Bethancourt said. Miscellany Red Sox left-hander Chris Sale makes his season debut on Tuesday after recovering from a right rib stress fracture … To make room for Bethancourt, the Rays optioned René Pinto to Durham, while calling up Luke Bard and optioning Phoenix Sanders … Bard picked up the win with three innings of one-run pitching, striking out two Boston hitters. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.