ST. PETERSBURG ― Kevin Cash raved about Luis Patino in spring training. The 22-year-old right-hander has only pitched two-thirds of an inning all season, however, after going on the 60-day injured list with a left oblique strain in early April. His return was further delayed by a blister on his right middle finger, which forced him out of his last rehab start in Durham on July 2 after three innings. “I hadn’t really been hurt like this before, first with the oblique and then with the blister,” Patino said Thursday. “God’s got decisions for us, and it’s in his hands. All I can do is come out here and be happy.” He’ll get the start tonight as the Rays face the Orioles — who have won 10 straight for the first time since 1999 — without Shane Baz, who went on the 15-day injured list Thursday with a right elbow sprain. Patino said he was ready to go all nine innings, but Cash said he likely won’t pitch “very deep” into the game after taking intermittent days off to let the blister heal. Less than 24 hours after picking up his first big-league win, right-hander Tommy Romero was sent back to Triple-A Durham to make room for Patino on the active roster. To create space on the 40-man roster, the Rays transferred catcher Mike Zunino (left shoulder inflammation) to the 60-day injured list, making mid-August the earliest he could return. The Rays also added lefty Ryan Yarbrough to the taxi squad. Yarbrough, who was optioned to Durham on July 1, has thrown 34 innings for the Rays this season. Brandon Lowe (low back discomfort) and Pete Fairbanks (right lat strain) were back at Tropicana Field pregame, returning from rehab assignments in Durham. Cash said it’s possible one or both could be activated over the weekend. “Let (head athletic trainer Joseph Benge) and our trainers kind of get their hands on him and see where they are, but very encouraged by both of them that they kind of went through multiple rehab games (and) came out feeling really good,” he said. “Talked to (Lowe) earlier today. He’s excited to be back at the Trop and probably not in Durham, which I don’t blame him.” Lineups Yu Chang, who was claimed off waivers from the Pirates on July 5, will start at short as Taylor Walls gets a day off. Chang has batted .333 (4-for-12) in five appearances for the Rays. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.