Law firm GrayRobinson, which has 14 offices in Florida and another in Washington, D.C., is on the move in Tampa. The firm has signed a deal to move its Tampa office from Truist Place to two of the top floors at Bank of America Plaza, 101 E Kennedy Blvd. The firm will take up most of the building’s 39th and 40th floors, putting it just below the Tampa Club, which occupies floors 41 and 42. The lease is for 32,313 square feet, according to Bank of America operators Banyan Street Capital and Oaktree. The space was previously occupied by New Orleans-based Adams and Reese, which this year announced a move from the building’s 40th floor to 100 North Tampa. GrayRobinson is scheduled to move by next summer. “We’re excited to take the majority of the top two floors at one of the most iconic office towers in the region,” said Dean Cannon, president and CEO of GrayRobinson. “This move will give us the ability to create a more efficient and dynamic office space with skyline views, premier amenities, ample parking, and close proximity to the courthouse.” The GrayRobinson lease was the centerpiece of a whopping 68,758 square feet of new and renewed office leases announced for Bank of America Plaza on Wednesday. New York asset management firm Star Mountain Capital will lease 9,060 square feet, and technology recruitment company Oscar Associates will take 4,612 square feet. Australian investment firm Plenary Group move into over 3,914 squafe feet, Tampa private merchant bank Atlantic Merchant Capital Investors will take 3,597 square feet, and a limited liability company called the Hansraj Company will take 1,286 square feet. The building also renewed leases for a combined 14,000 square feet of space to law firms Culpepper Kurland and De la Parte and Gilbert, and commercial real estate services firm CoStar. The new and renewed leases follow a $1.7 million renovation of the Tampa Club, and come at a time when demand for Class A office space is still high. Bank of America Plaza has raised its price per square foot 12 percent year over year, yet has leased more space than any other downtown Tampa tower this year, the building’s owners said. “Looking across our entire national office portfolio, Tampa continues to outperform and these recent leasing successes at Bank of America Tower illustrate why,” Banyan Street Capital managing director Zac Gruber said in a statement. “We continue to see, in real time, that well-branded and amenitized assets located in high-demand submarkets are achieving exceptional occupancy and rent growth regardless of what many of the national headlines may imply.” Banyan Street Capital also owns the Rivergate Tower at 400 N Ashley Drive and the Tampa City Center at 201 N Franklin St.