TAMPA — Though still a few sweltering workouts from being tabbed Lithe Lenny, the player at the center of the Bucs’ most overblown offseason hubbub arrived at training camp noticeably trimmer than he appeared at his previous public workout. Seven weeks after acknowledging he was “240-something (pounds)” at the team’s mandatory minicamp, veteran tailback Leonard Fournette took handoffs, short passes and few knees during the team’s first preseason practice Wednesday morning before several hundred fans at AdventHealth Training Center. “Leonard looked good,” first-year coach Todd Bowles said afterward. “I don’t know too many players in the offseason that’s going to stay in shape year-round, as long as they’re in shape in training camp. He ran great in the tests (Tuesday). He’s explosive, he’s quick and we’re happy with him.” In the weeks following the early-June minicamp, where photos of a visibly bulky Fournette went viral, the team’s top returning rusher (and third-leading receiver) periodically posted photos of his personal summer workouts, and even poked fun at his minicamp weight, which became TV and radio fodder during the NFL’s dormant stretch. Fournette, 27, wasn’t made available to reporters in the interview area after practice Wednesday, but weighed in at 245 pounds on Tuesday, according to Pro Football Focus. “I feel like he’s in great shape right now,” Bowles said. “You don’t want to come into camp in tip-top shape, you want to get in some better playing shape as you get into camp, so that naturally is going to drop about four or five pounds. Not just him, but we have several guys like that, which is only natural. But as far as running the ball and playing in games, he can play right now.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.