Not a serious idea What Biden needs is a Republican Congress. That worked for Bill Clinton. | Column, July 8 “Voters, by putting the Republicans in control of Congress, you will help save the Biden presidency and, more importantly, truly help our nation.” Is columnist Gary Franks serious? His suggestion is dangerous foolishness. The Republican Party when he was in Congress from 1991-97 is nothing like the Republican Party of today. It is nothing like the GOP members of Congress who once represented Pinellas County, Bill Young and David Jolly. If the current congressional Republicans acted like a party serious about policy and governing, that would be different. But it is not. Set aside Mr. Franks’ suspect reasoning that giving the GOP control of the House and Senate would “help save the Biden presidency,” it would not “truly help our nation.” Dangerously far from it. Rick Carson, St. Petersburg The root of the problem Images of gun violence could prod the public | Column, July 8 Perhaps it is partially true to assert, as some do, that we have a mental health problem, not a gun problem. After all, what sane lawmaker would think it’s a good idea for teens to be able to buy powerful weapons of war? What logical person doesn’t believe that if our nation’s founders could have seen ahead 200 years to our weapons of war and the hideous wounds they inflict, that they would have allowed for common sense regulation of those extreme weapons? What is the cause of this insanity of certain lawmakers? Follow the money. Paula Zitzelberger, St. Petersburg Admit no mistake A huge political mistake the Jan. 6 committee could certainly avoid | Column, July 7 Republicans are living under the philosophy that they will be perceived as wrong and weak if they admit they were fooled by Donald Trump. It is similar to the concept of being duped by a con man. No one wants to admit they took the bait — hook, line and sinker. They would rather live in their echo chamber than admit they were taken. Larry Bush, Lutz Check the birth certificate What, to these Americans, is the Fourth of July? | Editorial, July 4 When does personhood begin? We celebrate our birthday on the day we were born. Our passports and driver’s license identify us by the date we are born. Every year we celebrate our “being” based on the date we are delivered from the womb, not on the date we are conceived. Our government determines that you are a human being the day you are born, not conceived. Gail Wohl, South Pasadena