We have witnessed unquestionable dedication from our district’s educators and support teams through tumultuous circumstances over the last two years. Despite the challenges and against tough odds, they succeeded in elevating Hillsborough County Public Schools to the 19th ranked district in the state, the highest in our history. We employ some of the most highly qualified staff in the state, yet it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and retain employees in every department of this organization. Part of the problem is the level of funding appropriated by the state and local effort. The Hillsborough County Public School district ranks 45th among Florida’s 67 districts in per pupil funding despite being the third largest in the state. Neighboring counties have passed a millage increase to fill gaps in state funding and out of Florida’s largest school districts, Hillsborough is the only one that has not passed such a supplemental millage. Another challenge for our area is a 30% inflation rate since 2007; public education funding has risen by only 8% in that time. Tampa recorded one of the highest rent increases in the country last year alone. At the same time, 1,800 teachers exited our district, and several principals left for higher salaries offered in neighboring counties. Our classroom teachers, for example, have a starting salary of $47,500. However, due to the compressed salary schedule, teachers do not see an annual increase until completing their seventh year. There are very few careers where a person would commit to working for six straight years without a pay increase. We are asking our educators in Hillsborough County to do just that while holding our future in their hands. To provide stability for our children, our district is placing a referendum on the Aug. 23, 2022, ballot where voters will decide whether to approve a one mil increase in ad valorem tax that would begin on July 1, 2023, and end on June 30, 2027. To be clear, these additional millage funds are not needed to balance the district’s budget. Thanks in part to a sound financial recovery plan in play over the past two years, our district is projected to end the fiscal year with a surplus and a very healthy fund balance reserve. How would additional funds be used? If approved, this ballot measure would provide an estimated $146 million annually for four years, 75% of which would go directly toward employee compensation. With approximately 700 instructional and 600 support staff vacancies, attractive financial packages would strengthen hiring efforts. Hillsborough County Public Schools would also use these funds to expand access to art, music, and P.E. for some of our youngest learners by adding additional teachers in these content areas. Finally, funds would also be utilized to strengthen workforce development initiatives in an ongoing effort to prepare graduates for lucrative careers in areas of high need in our community. The money would benefit our innovative new high schools dedicated to developing talent pipelines for students interested in medical, construction, and logistics-related fields, as well as other high need career programming. The millage funds would stay in our local community, strengthening its fabric while providing new, exciting experiences for children. How would a millage increase affect you? Property owners would pay an additional $1 for every $1,000 in assessed value but stay within statutory limits. The median market value of a home in Hillsborough County, for example, is $246,808. A homeowner under the proposed millage increase would pay an additional $18.48 per month, or $222 per year. If you don’t have children attending public school but live in Hillsborough County, a stronger public school system will positively impact your property value and quality of life. The children who will benefit from this millage are the future nurses, construction workers, firefighters, and business owners. A brighter future for them means a better tomorrow for all of us. Plans for sound financial stewardship Our community previously championed education by passing a halfpenny sales tax in 2018 to improve aging infrastructure throughout our 250-plus schools and facilities. We have a proven track record of responsibly investing $416 million to date on air conditioning overhauls, roofing repairs, security improvements, and more. We created an oversight committee comprised of local leaders to ensure every penny is spent in a responsible manner as promised; we will do the same thing if this millage is approved. Stronger schools, stronger Hillsborough Ensuring we provide an educational system that affords each child the chance to succeed is our litmus test for success. We must put our district in a position to compete for talent in a world where a higher paying job could be just a few miles across the county line. When we make education a priority, our community will grow stronger for generations to come. Nadia Combs is chairwoman of the Hillsborough County Public School Board.