TAMPA — It’s been less than two weeks since the Lightning fell just short of a third consecutive Stanley Cup championship following a Game 6 loss to the Avalanche. Now, the team can look ahead to next season with Wednesday’s release of the 2022-23 regular-season schedule. Ticket and broadcast information will be made available at a later date. Following a six-game preseason (with games against the Hurricanes, Panthers and Predators), the Lightning will open the season with a three-game road trip to New York (Oct. 11 against the Rangers), Columbus (Oct. 14) and Pittsburgh (Oct. 15). The home opener will be Oct. 18 against the Flyers at Amalie Arena, and the Lightning will host the Avalanche in a matchup of Stanley Cup final opponents on Feb. 9. The All-Star weekend is scheduled for Feb. 3-4 in Sunrise. Lightning players not competing in the weekend’s activities will have a break from play from Jan. 29-Feb. 5. Notable dates Oct. 11 at Rangers The Lightning’s first meeting with the Rangers since rallying from a 2-0 series deficit to win the Eastern Conference final in six games. Oct. 18 vs. Flyers The home opener at Amalie Arena. For the first time in three seasons, there will not be a championship banner celebration. Oct. 21 at Panthers The first meeting between the teams since the Lightning swept the Presidents’ Trophy winners in the second round of the playoffs. Nov. 19 at Predators The first time Tampa Bay fans will see Ryan McDonagh in a Nashville sweater in a regular-season game. The former Lightning defenseman was traded to the Predators Sunday for salary-cap relief. Dec. 3 vs. Maple Leafs The first time Tampa Bay will face Toronto since battling back from a 3-2 series deficit to win the opening-round series on two Nick Paul goals in Game 7. Dec. 6 vs. Red Wings The first time Lightning fans will see former Tampa Bay assistant Derek Lalonde behind the Detroit bench. . Dec. 31 vs. Coyotes The team will ring in the new year at Amalie Arena for the second straight season. The Lightning lost to the Rangers 4-3 in a shootout last New Year’s Eve. Feb. 9 vs. Avalanche The first meeting between the teams since Colorado beat Tampa Bay in the Stanley Cup final. Feb. 15 at Coyotes The Lightning’s first visit to Arizona State University, where the Coyotes will play home games through at least 2024-25. March 2 vs. Penguins Kicks off the first of 15 games in March. April 13 vs. Red Wings The final game of the regular season. Notable numbers 6 Longest stretch of home games. The Lightning will kick off the six-game stand against the Maple Leafs on Dec. 3, then host the Red Wings, Predators, Panthers and Kraken before finishing with the Blue Jackets on Dec. 15. 5 Longest road trip. Tampa Bay will start the five-game stint at St. Louis on Jan. 14, then play at Seattle, Vancouver and Edmonton before finishing Jan. 21 at Calgary. 14 Number of back-to-backs this season. It will happen three times in October, once in November, twice in December, twice in January, three times in February, twice in March and once in April. 15 Number of games scheduled in March, the busiest month of the season. The Lightning will play 15 games in a 29-day span, with two back-to-backs. Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.