CINCINNATI — The Rays’ expected flurry of pregame moves Sunday morning included a surprise — lefty starter Jeffrey Springs placed on the 15-day injured list. Springs, who pitched Tuesday in Boston, has been sidelined with right lower-leg tightness. For the past 10 days he also has been dealing with the hospitalization of his 5-month-old, Stetson, who has an infection in his spinal fluid and is being treated in St. Petersburg. Manager Kevin Cash said Springs has been dealing with a calf issue for a while and, especially since it is the same leg that he had knee surgery on last year, they wanted to be sure he gets past it. Lefty Josh Fleming was called up. As long as he is not needed today, Fleming likely will take Springs’ turn in the rotation on Monday vs. the Red Sox at home, though perhaps behind an opener. As expected, the Rays placed shortstop Wander Franco and centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier on the 10-day injured list and called up infielder Jonathan Aranda and outfielder Luke Raley. Franco likely has a broken hamate bone in his right hand and is looking at surgery that could sideline him 6-8 weeks; the Rays will know more on Monday when he sees specialist Dr. Doug Carlan. Kiermaier had a recurrence of the left hip tightness that also sidelined him last month. It is not clear how long he will be out. Cash said the plan is to play Taylor Walls at shortstop pretty much every day, with Yu Chang as an option and occasional fill-in. Josh Lowe and Brett Phillips, both lefty swingers and neither hitting much lately, will share centerfield in Kiermaier’s absence. Kiermaier plans to see a hip specialist next week and acknowledged that surgery could be among the possible options, which would lead to an extended injury-list stint. The Rays made one other move, optioning rookie reliever Calvin Faucher, who took the loss Saturday in not retiring any of three batters in the 10th inning, and calling up USF product Phoenix Sanders. Shane Baz starts today for the Rays against Reds lefty Matt Lodolo; the Reds won the first two games of the series on 10th-inning walkoffs. Here is the Rays lineup: And for the Reds: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.