Measure of the men Could DeSantis be a bigger threat to the republic? | Column, July 7 Columnist Max Boot is spot-on in his analysis of Gov. Ron DeSantis vs. former President Donald Trump. Trump is reactive and DeSantis is intelligent, which makes DeSantis more of a future threat to democracy than Trump. The comparison of DeSantis to Richard Nixon is chilling but not out of line. However, comparing these two individuals without considering history distorts the picture. Trump is more of a threat to democracy from what he’s being held accountable for, the Big Lie and its follow-on potential illegalities. DeSantis, on the other hand, is guilty of serving up a well-crafted menu of cultural finagling while ignoring the governance of the state. That is his big sin. The State of Florida can recover from the sins of Gov. DeSantis on much better footing than the country can from the tragedy of Donald Trump. Jon Crawfurd, Gulfport So much for slogans DeSantis quiet on future of abortion | July 6 I think it is the height of hypocrisy for Gov. Ron DeSantis to stand at a podium with a banner saying “Protect Children” and “Support Parents.” This is the man who has refused to expand Medicaid, the benefits of which would go to countless children and their parents. This is the sole governor, of 50, who failed to get vaccines to protect children from COVID-19. Stephen Phillips, St. Petersburg California dreamin’ Newsom’s ad in Florida: “Join us in California” | July 4 California Gov. Gavin Newsom is exactly the leader we need right now. Both in Florida and in the White House, I’ll always be thankful to President Joe Biden and the millions of patriots who supported him, but we need a fighter who can defeat the next bully disguised as a patriot. Eileen Stafford, St. Petersburg Already decided Join the National Guard | Letter, July 7 In its 2008 Heller v. District of Columbia decision, the Supreme Court ruled that “the Second Amendment guarantees an individual right to possess firearms independent of service in a state militia and to use firearms for traditionally lawful purposes, including self-defense within the home.” Firearms, like alcohol and cars, are inanimate objects that do nothing — harmful or otherwise — until they in the hands of irresponsible people like drunk drivers in the case of cars and alcohol. It is people who cause these unnecessary deaths, not the inanimate objects. K. Howe, Port Richey