LAND O’ LAKES — A stumble in the school grade for West Zephyrhills Elementary School has led to a shuffling of several Pasco County principals, just weeks before classes resume. After receiving C grades in 2018 and 2019, West Zephyrhills dropped to an F after the most recent round of state testing. Scott Atkins, who took over the school five years ago after a successful run leading A-rated Sand Pine Elementary, had gotten the school off the state’s watch list, employing several new strategies. But because it had D grades in 2016 and 2017, the latest grade meant the school falls under a Florida law that requires a change in leadership. Atkins was transferred to the principal job at Odessa Elementary School. “That creates a domino effect,” superintendent Kurt Browning said. Odessa’s current principal, Allison Hoskins, has been in that job for a year, but will now move to the district office as a principal trainer. Christina Twardosz, who had been reassigned to run Mittye P. Locke Elementary in May, will shift gears to take over West Zephyrhills. Browning said Twardosz fit the state criteria as a turnaround leader from previous work at Centennial Elementary. He selected Tammy Berryhill, principal at Cypress Elementary since 2019, to take over Mittye P. Locke. Berryhill previously led the school in New Port Richey, and Browning said her strong community ties made her a perfect fit for the post. Jeanne Krapfl, principal at Deer Park Elementary since 2017, will move to Cypress. The district will advertise for a new leader at Cypress, Browning said. Unrelated to those shifts, Anclote High School also will get a new principal — at least temporarily. Nancy Guss, who retired as principal of the Irvin Education Center in 2016, was appointed as acting principal of Anclote High. She will sit in for Vanessa Moon, who officials said is taking a leave for personal reasons. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.