BALTIMORE — Taking ace Shane McClanahan out after seven innings and just 81 pitches Tuesday night, with his Rays team holding a one-run lead, seemed surprising. McClanahan said it was — but also that it wasn’t. That’s because the move was part of the Rays’ concern for the 25-year-old lefty’s workload in his first full major-league season, and an example of how their commitment creates a difficult balance in a season when it seems every game will matter. Tuesday’s decision eventually led to the Rays losing a game they looked positioned to win, 5-3 to the Orioles. They dropped their fourth straight, matching a season high, and are 52-45. Reliever Colin Poche replaced McClahanan with the Rays up 3-2 and quickly made a mess, allowing a single and a two-run go-ahead homer. Manager Kevin Cash said they stuck with their plan and made the move for the right reasons. “I’ll be totally honest, if his pitch count wasn’t so low, he would have been done after six,” he said. “But he was so low, we felt comfortable (with him) going back out for the seventh. But there’s no doubt it’s a challenging decision, discussion, just because we know how good he is. “But we also have a lot of confidence in the guys that were, in theory, coming in to get the final six outs.” McClanahan made it clear he didn’t have any say. “It’s not my call. I can only control what I do on the mound,” he said. “...I was surprised but I wasn’t at the same time. It was my first start back (since the All-Star Game) and ultimately they’re going to do what they think is best. I don’t have control. I’ve just got to trust them.” The Rays have been transparent about their concern for McClanahan’s total workload. With 117 2/3 innings he is already approaching his most for any season — 129 last year in the regular season and playoffs, plus some innings at the alternate site before his late-April call-up. (Plus, he had Tommy John elbow surgery his first year at USF, missing the 2016 season.) Cash said “the biggest factor” Tuesday was the long break McClanahan had — by the Rays’ design — around his All-Star appearance and their reluctance to extend him too far. He threw 6 1/3 innings on July 13, had five days off, threw a 23-pitch inning in Los Angeles on July 19 and had six more days off before facing the Orioles on Tuesday. The Rays pushed him to the back of the rotation to bank some innings for later in the season. Even though McClanahan allowed only two hits — a solo homer on the first pitch to Cedric Mullins and another with two outs in the fourth to Anthony Santander — the seven innings and 81 pitches were enough for the Rays. Had Poche done what he has most of the season and gotten the Orioles out in the eighth, and had whomever had the ninth closed the game out, the McClanahan decision would have been less magnified. But Poche fell behind 3-0 against his first batter, Adley Rutschman, then gave up a full-count single. He got ahead of Ramon Urias 0-2 then made “a really bad” pitch that went over the left-centerfield wall and put the Orioles up 4-3. “A lot of regret with the way I attacked Urias on that 0-2 pitch,” he said. Poche got one out, then allowed a double and a walk, and the Orioles later added another, leading to a frustrating loss. “Shane’s been great for us every time he takes the mound, we expect to win every time he’s out there and he gave us a great chance to do it,” Poche said. “We’re in a big advantage situation there with a lead going into the eighth, and us as a bullpen and me, particularly myself, I expect us to nail that down. “It’s really disappointing, especially with kind of the skid we’ve been on; we really needed a win today.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.