Recently, the Pasco County School Board voted to place a referendum on the ballot in the August primary election to provide a secondary means of income for all teachers and non-administrative personnel in the county. As the Pasco County Tax Collector, I know many people wonder why this referendum is necessary. They are asking Pasco property owners to approve a slight increase in property tax — up to $1 per $1,000 of taxable value — to provide higher salaries for all teachers and support staff. That includes bus drivers and assistants, food service workers, custodians, classroom assistants, secretaries, maintenance and more. The referendum, if passed, will enable Pasco County to compete with surrounding counties who pay much higher wages because they already have supplemental means for employee salary improvements. Pinellas County’s referendum, renewed several times now, pays each teacher an additional $4,000 per year. This past year was difficult for many in Pasco. Employees were forced to leave the school district to find higher-paying jobs elsewhere. School buses ran late due to driver shortages and that caused a serious loss of student instructional time. In many cases, students had substitute teachers for much or all the school year because the district was unable to compete with salaries from nearby counties. Instructional Assistants were forced into teaching roles. Academic tutors, who were intended to help with student loss-of-learning from COVID, were also used as primary classroom teachers. Bus drivers and assistants left the district because they were overburdened by shortages in transportation. The district was forced to make mid-year changes in school start times to attempt to alleviate the shortfall of qualified drivers. Nobody benefited from any of this. However, our students suffered the most. Pasco has many highly qualified employees in all departments. It is incumbent on all of us — all citizens of Pasco — to take up the cause of keeping Pasco’s best and finest here in Pasco. This is not a Democratic or Republican issue. This is a public education concern. Our children deserve the best educators and staff in front of them and working with them. The best way to ensure that happening is to give employees good working conditions, good benefits and a fair and competitive salary that allows them to focus on their most important role — educating tomorrow’s leaders today. I will vote “yes” on Aug. 23 in support of our teachers and support staff. Please join me in keeping Pasco’s best in Pasco. Mike Fasano, a Republican, has been the Pasco County tax collector since 2013.