ST. PETERSBURG — The way the injuries to key players keep piling up, you’d expect the excuses from Rays officials to as well. Confirmation that shortstop Wander Franco will be out five to eight weeks after undergoing hamate surgery Tuesday, and acknowledgment that centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier is “going to be down for some time” as he explores solutions post to recurring left hip issues, were the latest blows. And that’s after the Rays lost second baseman Brandon Lowe, catcher Mike Zunino and outfielder Manuel Margot for extended periods, with only Lowe close to a return (possibly this weekend). So what do you do? What you don’t do, manager Kevin Cash said, is let the injury woes take your focus away from the players who are on the field and the games to be won. “You don’t have a choice,” Cash said. “You look in the (Boston) dugout right now — they don’t have a choice either. They’re pretty beat up as well. So you’ve got to make the most of the roster that you have.” Nor do you let your troubles get you down, baseball operations president Erik Neander said. “There’s no time to feel sorry about your circumstances,” Neander said. “When it comes to weathering it, we’re as dependent on young talent as any organization when it comes to our success. “We’re asking a lot of some of our youngest, least experienced talent, but we’ve got to continue to stay with them and help them make the most of their opportunities. And to get better day by day.” Those opportunities have yielded mixed results, testing the patience of team officials — and fans. Taylor Walls has gotten the biggest chance, and will continue to as the everyday shortstop in Franco’s absence, but has yet to do much with it offensively, hitting .161 (second lowest of any big-leaguer with 200 at-bats) with a .505 OPS. Infielder/outfielder Vidal Brujan was deemed not ready (.167, .476) and sent back to Triple-A. Catcher Rene Pinto (.204, .533) was replaced on the roster by trade acquisition Christian Bethancourt. Outfielder Josh Lowe (.187, .551) was sent down, brought back up and, after another slow start, is showing some signs of hope. The best success story among the young players is infielder Isaac Paredes, who was hitting .240 with a team-high 13 homers and an .852 OPS entering play Tuesday. Though just 23, Paredes, acquired in the late spring trade for Austin Meadows, is also an example of the need for patience: He hit .220 with a .568 OPS in 34 games for the Tigers in 2020, and .208, .625 in 23 last season. “You never know when that light’s going to come on,” Neander said. “For someone like (Paredes), it looks like it’s taken him really his third major-league opportunity to find it and, frankly, exceed our expectations. “You’ve got to maintain that humility when it comes to young players. You never know when it’s going to click, you never know when those moments are going to be, what the adjustments are going to be, the ball that finds space that starts to snowball the confidence in a positive direction.” For now, the Rays are willing to continue to give their younger players opportunities. “You’ve got to stay with these guys,” Neander said. ”You’ve got to continue to support them and … continue to put them in the right positions to find success. There’s a lot of ability here and we have confidence that they will do that in time. When are those moments? It would be nice if a few of them happen this year.” The next few weeks will be telling, leading up to decisions on whether to add more experienced help, stand pat or sell at the Aug. 2 trade deadline. The Rays should have Brandon Lowe back, and a better sense if he has returned to his typical slugger self, as he hit just .212 with five homers in 32 games before being sidelined; a more informed timeline on Franco and Margot; and clarity on whether Kiermaier and Zunino will return at all. While the focus has been on replacing the offense of their injured position players, there also should be a boost in getting back at least some of their injured pitchers, with reliever Pete Fairbanks the closest, Luis Patino and Jeffrey Springs on track, and Nick Anderson, JT Chargois, Yonny Chirinos, and JP Feyereisen among other intriguing possibilities. Despite all the absences, 16 players total on the injured list (most in the majors), the Rays have managed to stay very much in the playoff race, going into play Tuesday night 46-40, a half game behind the Red Sox for the top wild card. “It’s a testament to this group just hanging in there and continuing to compete,” Neander said. “It’s been turbulent. Kind of starts and stops, gas and brake, whatever you want to say. But these guys are competing. “The younger players are finding a way to get better. Isaac, seeing what he did to kind of establish himself, is huge. Harold (Ramirez) stepping up and doing what he did. The pitching really, I mean, it’s done a wonderful job of keeping us in a lot of games. “So I think we’ve bought some of the younger guys some time to find their footing. But I think for us to continue to ascend to get to where we’d ultimately like to go, we’re going to need them, a few more of them, to make those steps forward like we saw Isaac do earlier this year.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.