CINCINNATI — Friday seemed bad enough, with the Rays losing for the first time in franchise history on a walkoff balk in the 10th inning. Saturday afternoon was worse. Dynamic shortstop Wander Franco looks to have broken the hamate bone in his right hand and could be out 6-8 weeks, and centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier is also headed to the injured list with a left hip issue. (And that after the news that catcher/first baseman Christian Bethancourt had been acquired in a trade from Oakland.) So what did Saturday night bring? Would you believe more bad news, with another crushing walkoff loss to the last-place Reds, this one 5-4 in 10 innings. Making it more vexing was how the Rays got there, blowing two leads, 3-0 in the eighth and 4-3 in the 10th. “Tough day,’' Kiermaier said. “You win as a team, you lose as a team. Move on. But that’s a tough one.’' The Rays, who came into Cincinnati feeling pretty good after winning five of six from the contending Blue Jays and Red Sox, fell to 45-39. The Reds moved to 31-54, last in the National League Central. The end came somewhat quickly Saturday. After taking the lead on another big hit by Harold Ramirez, who along with Francisco Mejia provided most of the offense, the Rays turned to their eighth pitcher of the day, rookie Calvin Faucher, to try to close it out. (Shawn Armstrong was the only other option.) Faucher faced three batters and didn’t get an out. He gave up a two-strike single to Matt Reynolds that put runners on the corners. He threw a wild pitch that scored Kyle Farmer (who started the inning as the runner on second) with the tying run. He gave up a two-strike single to Donovan Solano that moved Reynolds to third. And then he gave up a single to Nick Senzel that delivered the winning run and launched another Great American Ball Park fireworks celebration. “Stuff felt great, arm feel great, just not executing with two strikes,’' said Faucher, who was sent to Triple A after the game. “It’s a tough outcome, for sure. I was fired up to be in that position. Unfortunately, it didn’t go our way,’' Letting the 3-0 lead get away in the eighth seemed more egregious, especially since the Rays had two of their better and more experienced relievers, Brooks Raley and Colin Poche, on the mound. “Not ideal. Tip your cap to the Reds, they did a good job,’’ manager Kevin Cash said. “Like to think a 3-0 ballgame, we can somehow preserve that. .... Raley and Poche had been so good for us all season long. Just a little hiccup.’' Raley created the mess. He loaded the bases by allowing back-to-back singles to Tyler Stephenson and Farmer, then, after an out, hitting Solano with an 0-2 pitch. “I think that probably the inning swung on the 0-2 pitch on the back foot; you’re trying to get the ball in the dirt in a big spot,’' Raley said. “So it just came down to execution. I didn’t do as well as I’d have liked, and I put Poche in a tough spot.’' And Poche couldn’t do anything to get out of it. He walked No. 9 hitter Senzel to force in a run, then after getting one out, he allowed a single to Brandon Drury that scored two, wiping out the 3-0 advantage. “Up 3-0, you feel like you’re going to win that game,’' Raley said. “So just bad outcomes, bad results.’' • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.