TAMPA — Had things turned out differently, Ruben “Butch” Delgado might have been at the White House on Monday with the mayor who would still be his boss. Tampa Mayor Jane Castor traveled to Washington, D.C. this week to celebrate the passage of the Safe Communities Act, a federal law aimed at reducing gun violence. Accompanying Castor was Mary O’Connor, who the mayor this year picked over Delgado and another finalist to serve as the city’s 43rd police chief. Delgado, meanwhile, was back in Tampa working his first day in his new job in the private sector: national director of a special fraud investigation unit at Heritage Insurance. The 48-year-old former assistant chief had surprised many by announcing that he would retire effective July 1 after 24 years with the department. Supporters who wanted Castor to pick him hoped he’d stick around and keep himself in a prime position to be the next chief. So why retire now? In a recent wide-ranging interview, Delgado talked about that decision, Castor’s controversial selection process and whether he’d consider returning to the department one day. “Growing up here, being with TPD my entire career, that would have been a great ending to it,” Delgado said of the prospect of being named chief. “That doesn’t mean I’m less satisfied now. I’m not leaving thinking I got shorted. We did a lot in 24 years and I’m good with it.” A ‘frustrating, confusing’ process The chain of events that led Delgado to his new job began last July, when then-Chief Brian Dugan announced he would retire on Oct. 1. Castor tapped Delgado to serve as interim chief and said she would conduct a national search for the job but never publicly posted the position. In late January, Castor announced three finalists: Delgado; O’Connor, who retired from the department in 2016 as an assistant chief; and an assistant chief with the Miami Police Department. Castor, a former Tampa police chief who promoted Delgado earlier in his career, announced her pick in February, saying O’Connor’s experience with the department and her later work as a consultant made her the right candidate. Delgado’s supporters — some of them on the City Council — criticized Castor for passing up an opportunity to tap a native son who they thought was doing the job well and whose appointment would help address a dearth of Hispanic leaders in the administration. They noted Delgado had a clean personnel file compared to O’Connor, who as a rookie cop was arrested, fired and then re-instated. The Tampa Police Benevolent Association, the police union, and NAACP Hillsborough branch president Yvette Lewis also supported Delgado. Critics said Castor’s search and selection process should have been more transparent and inclusive. Delgado in May announced his retirement, saying only that he was leaving for a job in the private sector. Delgado told the Times he wanted to keep the details of his “very honest” conversations with Castor about her decision between them. But he acknowledged he was disappointed and a bit surprised by the outcome, and confused by the search and selection process. “It was frustrating because for six months you do the job as the interim chief and you’re being told everything is going smooth, keep doing what you’re doing,” he said. “But at the end of the day, she’s the mayor and she makes her decision.” Asked how he thought the process might have been improved, Delgado said Castor could have made her selection sooner after Dugan announced his retirement, or done a “real” national search by posting the job publicly and soliciting applications through a national organization. “It was just an in-between thing that was very confusing,” he said. “There was nothing going on for a long time and then we did it all in two days.” Asked for comment, Castor provided a statement. “I have a great deal of respect for Butch and meant it when I said he will make a great police chief one day,” Castor said. “It’s understandable that he was disappointed by the selection, but we looked nationwide for the best possible candidate, and Chief Mary O’Connor every day shows we made a great choice.” Heritage CEO Ernie Garateix reached out to Delgado about the job after Castor announced she’d picked O’Connor. Delgado said he and his wife Grace agreed he shouldn’t pass up the opportunity. One factor in the decision: Delgado was enrolled in Florida’s deferred retirement program and would be required to retire in three years. He didn’t want to stop working altogether or wait too long to decide his next step. “If a solid offer comes in, you’ve really got to look at it because the reality is if you wait for a perfect position, it might never exist,” he said. “You’re going to be retired and really out of the market.” Highlights, controversies and a looming question Delgado saw his share of highlights, challenges and controversies. He said he’s proud of his years serving on the department’s honor guard, helping pay tribute to officers in death. Those duties hit close to home in 2010, when officers David Curtis and Jeffrey Kocab were fatally shot during a traffic stop. Delgado at the time was a lieutenant who oversaw their squad. “It puts things into perspective how quickly things can go wrong,” he said. Delgado was a captain in 2015 when a Times investigation showed that officers issued tickets to bicyclists who were almost exclusively Black. A federal review concluded the tactic was unfair and didn’t reduce crime. The department failed to explain the aim was to reduce crime in neighborhoods where residents were scared to sit on their porches, Delgado said. “It’s a conversation that we should have had with (residents) ahead of time and said hey, you’re going to see a lot more cops in this area, this is why,” he said, adding the department could have issued more warnings and fewer citations that burdened people financially. Delgado was leading the department’s Major Crimes Bureau when a series of four apparently random shootings began in Seminole Heights in 2017. After 51 days of long hours and high pressure, a tipster helped break the case. “That was probably the most challenging time for me, especially on the management side because of the size of that operation,” he said. Dugan has said Delgado’s performance during that episode showed he was ready for more responsibility. Dugan promoted him to major in 2017, then in 2019 to deputy chief of investigations and support. (Soon after, Dugan reorganized his executive staff and made Delgado one of two assistant chiefs.)  The promotion put Delgado in the highest ranks of the department during historic challenges that included the pandemic and civil unrest and calls for police reform after the murder of George Floyd by Minneapolis police. Tampa police drew criticism from protesters and others who said officers used excessive force and made unnecessary arrests. Delgado said the department’s approach to protests “evolved” as officers tried to be less visible to avoid antagonizing demonstrators. “So they can monitor crowds, give (protestors) the space they need to say whatever they’re going to say, and we can keep the community safe while not being as visible or look like it’s overbearing and trying to stop them from accomplishing what they want to do,” he said. When demonstrators broke the law by blocking roads, he said, “there comes a point in time where officers have to step in and take control of the scene.” Delgado’s first big controversy as interim chief came after a Times story highlighted a program that had police alerting landlords when their tenants were arrested and urging they be evicted. About 90 percent of tenants flagged to landlords were Black renters. The Department of Justice is investigating. Delgado met with the NAACP and other activists to try to address their concerns. The city replaced the program with one called SAFE, under which officers no longer send arrest notices to landlords. The episode didn’t damper his desire to be chief. “It’s just part of being in that position,” he said.  Leading the security planning for Super Bowl LV was a highlight, even if it meant missing the Buccaneers’ historic win. He coordinated with dozens of agencies and had to plan with NFL officials over video calls because of the pandemic. During the second half, Delgado was in the bowels of Raymond James Stadium planning the post-game deployment. Delgado and his wife are staying in Valrico, where they’ve raised their two children. As he starts his next chapter, a question looms: Would he consider returning to serve as chief if he got the chance? Delgado said Garateix, his new boss at Heritage, has made it clear he’d understand if Delgado seized on such an opportunity. “It would be something I would definitely entertain,” Delgado said.