The big story: Much has been made about parental rights in Florida public education. Less has been said about parental responsibilities. But as school district officials navigate their way through the latest set of laws governing just how much parents control of their children’s time in the schools, those officials say they see no way to steer away from the need to require parents to do more. In the case of the Pasco County district, that translates into more paperwork. It’s the way the administration says it can ensure that parents have received the information the state mandates gets into their hands, and that they have actively consented to the services the schools previously provided without always getting permission in advance. “The parent is the one that has a lot of added responsibility under this particular law,” superintendent Kurt Browning said. Read more here. Hot topics Tax referendums: The Hillsborough County school district’s financial reputation is front and center as officials ask voters to approve a new property tax that would support teacher pay increases. Funding: Marion County schools are on track to have a record budget, largely due to an influx of federal money, the Ocala Star-Banner reports. • The Flagler County school district expects to dip into its reserves to balance its budget, the Palm Coast Observer reports. School board politics: A teacher who lives in Pasco County has formally challenged the eligibility of School Board candidate Al Hernandez to appear on the August ballot. • Two Martin County School Board seats are contested this fall, while a third saw the incumbent win reelection without opposition, TC Palm reports. Sex education: The leader of an effort to stop adoption of sex education textbooks in Miami-Dade County schools is connected to a controversial private school, and has no children in the public system, the Miami Herald reports. Back to school: Students soon return to Florida schools and universities. Some health precautions in the case of a coronavirus resurgence are not available as options, Florida Phoenix reports. • Looking for back-to-school savings? Florida’s annual sales tax holiday begins today, WTVT reports. Other school news Losing a parent can derail a child’s education. A Palm Beach County high school counselor created a special club to address the needs of students in grief, NPR reports. Taylor County has a new schools superintendent. District grants coordinator Alicia Beshears replaces Danny Glover, who resigned in 2021 amid allegations of harassment against employees, WCTV reports. The Alachua County school district wants to reduce incidents of students bringing guns to campus. The School Board adopted a resolution addressing parents’ responsibilities in storing firearms, the Gainesville Sun reports. Several Florida school districts are looking at providing affordable housing for employees. It’s a new way to address staff shortages, WFTS reports. Before you go ... It was only a matter of time before Dwayne Johnson put on a hero’s costume. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.