BOSTON — Left-hander Jeffrey Springs is set to return to action tonight against the Red Sox. Springs has been away from the Rays since Thursday, when he was placed on the family medical emergency list. He was reinstated Tuesday, and Josh Fleming — who was promoted Monday and worked five-plus innings in the 4-0 loss to Boston — was optioned back to Triple-A Durham. Also Tuesday, the Rays claimed infielder Yu Chang off waivers from the Pirates. Chang, a 26-year-old right-handed hitter, plays first, second and third base and previously played with Cleveland. To make room on the 40-man roster, the Rays shifted Brandon Lowe to the 60-day injured list. They will have to make room on the active roster when Chang, who is out of options, reports. Springs was to start Thursday in Toronto but missed that whole series and then flew to Boston Monday night to rejoin the Rays. Cash said the issue involved Stetson Springs, the 5-month-old son of Jeff and his wife, Bailey, and had stabilized. “Really excited to have him back,” Cash said. “He’ll probably discuss it more, but his child, his 5-month-old, is doing well. It’s going to be a little process in the hospital for a little while, but I think him and his wife feel good about the status and the update.” medical issue involving his 5-month-old son, Stetson, and was scheduled to start Tuesday night’s game against the Red Sox. Cash said the Rays considered Springs to be “full-go” for the game despite the missed time, which included a Thursday start in Toronto, and noted Springs was able to go to Tropicana Field to keep his arm in shape. After scoring 24 runs and rapping 41 hits over the final three games in Toronto, the Rays were shut down Monday, getting just two hits against a trio of Boston pitchers. The degree of difficulty may increase tonight as they face one of the Sox’s top starters in right-hander Nick Pivetta. The Rays, somewhat surprisingly, don’t have lefty-swinging Ji-Man Choi in the lineup, as Isaac Paredes is playing first base. Here is the Rays’ lineup: And for the Red Sox, with Xander Bogaerts back at shortstop: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.