More of ‘us’ Why I love America, warts and all | Column, July 2 On this Fourth of July, I’m hopeful that we continue to work and build upon the ideals of equality and freedom, expanding the definition of “us” and shrinking the definition of “them.” How we respond this moment in time may define what our country is like for a very long time. Paul Bacon, Hallandale Beach What bravery has become Cassidy Hutchinson is the Jan. 6 witness we’ve been waiting for | Column, June 30 It’s telling that now, when a Republican dares to obey the Constitution or tell the truth under oath, they are praised for their heroic bravery. Once upon a time, it was the very least that was expected of them. E. Race, Port Richey Voting is the one, true poll What do Americans think about the abortion policy? It’s complicated | PolitiFact, July 1 For a change I find myself in agreement with PolitiFact. Not necessarily with its assessment of American’s pulse on policy changes but how the polling results are gathered. Paraphrasing from the article, the answers often given are driven by how the questions are asked and by whom. Sadly, I naively once believed that when asked a question the pollster actually wanted to know my feelings on the subject. The only true poll is free and fair elections. Mark H. Campbell, Saint Petersburg Two classes of Americans After Roe falls, ‘rage donations’ surge | June 30 While the Supreme Court decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization does not outlaw abortion, it is just another assault on the idea of representative government. Dobbs creates two classes of Americans, just as state laws did during slavery and Jim Crow. In this case, one group’s rights are frozen in 1868, and its history gets to be told by one old, white justice who I believe is a pitiful historian. The other class’ rights extend to the present to varying degrees, with a thinly veiled intimation that said rights are now fair game. Dobbs strips the Constitution of the authority to protect the rights of women as full-fledged, autonomous citizens and devolves it to the states where, of course, conservatives have focused most of their efforts for the last half century. Dobbs is not even logically consistent: The state can in no way legitimately eliminate a level of its authority in the name of protecting bodies and then turn around and protect state-mandated pregnancy (which could prove harmful) at another. Dobbs erases history. It further disenfranchises an already disenfranchised group. It is nihilism and cynicism in their purest form. Richard Pyrczak, Tampa