My young friend was raped This is what it means to rape a 10-year-old | Column, July 15 The story of the rape of a 10-year-old was too close for comfort. In 1963 I was 11 and a witness to the rape of my 11-year-old friend. The law caught the man, and we all went to court. But in 1963 it was too difficult to convince a jury to convict based on the testimony of two 11-year-olds. The man was freed — freed to continue his despicable acts on other young girls. Fortunately, some adults think differently now, at what, 59 years later. Finally? Harriet E. Browder, Clearwater Who is providing the ‘windfall’? How about some property tax relief from Tampa Bay cities and counties? | Editorial | July 14 This editorial doesn’t fully break down the “windfall” that cities and counties will receive in property tax revenues. It barely mentions that home owners who are homesteaded will see only a 3% increase due to the Save Our Homes cap. How much of this additional revenue is coming from tax valuation resets when property changes hands? Homesteaded property can only increase at 3% or CPI, but when a home changes hands, the new owners have to pay taxes based on the new valuation, minus any portable homestead breaks they brought with them. I’m guessing that many people paying for the windfall are the swarm of outsiders who have moved here, got into bidding wars for houses and made cash offers — which many locals could not. I for one am happy our local governments will have these additional revenues, especially since they are coming on the backs of the very people who are driving the increase. Tampa Bay is growing rapidly, and that requires more services. Mike Munger, St. Petersburg Make dads pay Abortion in Fla.: What to know | July 4 Now that the Supreme Court has overturned Roe v. Wade, there is one thing that everyone should agree on: The men who impregnate women should be responsible for the women during the pregnancy and should be responsible for the children at least until they reach the age of 18. It is time for women who hold office to put aside their political differences and join together, liberals and conservatives, to draft legislation to address the problem. For too long, women have been on the defensive. The Supreme Court decision has created the perfect time for women to take the offensive position, not only on abortion, but also on contraception and any issue that impacts women disproportionately. Robert Monroe, Tampa