The invisible ones Who is Cassidy Hutchinson, key Jan. 6 witness? | June 30 The reason White House staffer Cassidy Hutchinson’s testimony is so compelling is that lower-level staffers, like all who serve the wealthy and elite, are invisible. Anyone who has ever served the rich understand that all their lives these elite people view their staffers the same way they view an appliance or piece of furniture. As a worker, if you really want to understand how the wealthy feel about you, do not look at how they treat you around your peers, but how they treat you around their peers. This is where they show their true colors. For most born into wealth and power, it would never enter their heads that their workers have actual, reasoning minds, or any kind of personal life outside serving them. Brian Valsavage, St. Petersburg It’s my party Time to open primaries | June 29 I understand the letter writer’s frustration about not being able to vote in the primaries, but look at it from my point of view. Why would I want a person outside of my party to help me choose who represents me? In open primaries, a group could vote for an opposing candidate and if enough people voted, it could knock out the top candidate of my party and allow the lesser candidate to be on the general ballot. Then those people could vote for the opposition party candidate. Mary Sheppard, Riverview Upholding the oath Who is Cassidy Hutchinson, key Jan. 6 witness? | June 30 In a recent deposition for the Jan. 6 committee, former national security adviser Michael Flynn, a retired general, pleaded the Fifth Amendment to avoid self-incrimination when asked if he believed in the peaceful transfer of power in the United States. A long time ago, I served as an officer in the U.S. Air Force for four years, and I took the same oath to protect the Constitution that he did. The thought that he, or any commissioned military officer, would give such an answer to such a basic question regarding our constitutional government is frightening. Robert Hogue, Apollo Beach Protect the vulnerable Shots scarce for kids under 5 | June 30 Thirty thousand disadvantaged kids will suffer because our governor, Ron DeSantis, and his surgeon general, Dr. Joseph Ladapo, impeded allowing parents the option of having these kids vaccinated. This silly, childish posturing has already cost many Floridians their health and, some, their lives. When are these two going to wake up and act in the best interest of the people of Florida rather than themselves? John Stansbury, Brooksville