BALTIMORE — The Rays have lost another front-line player, as primary catcher Francisco Mejia is out with a right shoulder impingement. Mejia’s placement on the 10-day injured list was announced shortly before Tuesday night’s game against the Orioles. He didn’t show any signs of the injury on Monday, when he went 2-for-4 at the plate and made a strong throw to second to catch speedy Cedric Mullins stealing. Mejia has been the Rays’ main catcher since Mike Zunino went on the injured list in early June, and he was expected to maintain that role. The extent of his injury is not yet known, though the Rays said they expect his absence to be short term. But it still seems likely to increase the team’s interest in acquiring a veteran catcher in advance of the Aug. 2 trade deadline. The Cubs’ Willson Contreras and Oakland’s Sean Murphy are two of the top catchers available. Mejia, a switch hitter, had a .258 average with six homers, 23 RBIs and a .688 OPS in 59 games. The other catcher on the roster is recently acquired Christian Bethancourt. Rene Pinto, who spent time earlier this year with the Rays, was called back up from Triple-A Durham. Raley getting a look Just being in the lineup Tuesday was something for Luke Raley, who never before started four straight games in his albeit short major-league career. The Rays are making an effort to give the lefty-swinging outfielder/first baseman an opportunity to show what he can do with some consistent playing time. And Raley, shuttled back and forth from Triple-A Durham a couple times after being acquired in March from the Dodgers and opening the season on the injured list, is trying hard to take advantage of it. “I’m excited to be out there,” he said. “I’m trying to make the most of each opportunity.” Draft breeze University of Tampa right-hander Haden Erbe was one of two non-drafted players signed as free agents by the Rays, along with Fairfield University lefty Michael Sansone. The Rays as of Tuesday afternoon had nine of their 22 picks unsigned, including top choice Xavier Isaac, the power-hitting North Carolina high school first baseman. The deadline is 5 p.m. Aug. 1. Late Monday, the Rays signed competitive balance round selections Chandler Simpson, the Georgia Tech shortstop taken No. 70 overall, and Ryan Cermak, the Illinois State outfielder taken 71st, plus 11 others. Rehab report Right-handed relievers Nick Anderson and JT Chargois both had impressive one-inning outings in a Florida Complex League game Tuesday and are likely to soon shift their rehab to Triple-A Durham. Of note: Anderson, recovering from October elbow surgery, has regained some of his velocity, hitting 93-94 mph. “(Chargois) and Nick both basically repeated what they did in their first outing, so very encouraged by that,” manager Kevin Cash said. Miscellany Drew Rasmussen starts for the Rays on Wednesday, eager for the opportunity to match up with Orioles rookie phenom and franchise cornerstone Adley Rutschman, who was his catcher for two years at Oregon State. … Taylor Walls was not in the Tuesday lineup on a planned day off as Yu Chang started at shortstop. … Ji-Man Choi’s errant fifth-inning throw Monday snapped the team record-tying 10-game errorless streak; the Rays also played that clean from April 23-May 3, 2008; Aug. 24-Sept. 4, 2010 and July 28-Aug. 7, 2011. ... Bally Sports Sun’s Rays sideline reporter Tricia Whitaker has added some additional duties; she has been added to the Apple TV+ crew for Friday night games the rest of the season. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.