The Times Editorial Board will make recommendations in all of the races listed below. We focus mainly on races that have a connection to Pinellas and Hillsborough counties. We wish we could do more — in Pasco, Hernando and Manatee counties, in particular — but the research and interviewing takes time. We don’t want to shortchange the process. Not everyone thinks that a newspaper’s editorial board should make political recommendations. There are valid arguments on both sides of that debate. We believe the recommendations contribute to healthy political dialogue. And given how many readers ask when the recommendations will appear, a lot of you find them valuable. You don’t have to agree with us, but be assured that we take the process seriously. Some races won’t appear on the official ballot until the general election cycle. In those races, we won’t make a recommendation until late September or early October. Here are all of the recommendations that we plan to make in the primary cycle. The recommendations will roll out over the next week. Once we publish a recommendation to the web, we will update the list below with a link. Click on the links to read the full recommendation. U.S. Senate Democratic primary U.S. Representative District 13 - Republicans District 14 - Republicans and Democrats District 15 - Republicans and Democrats District 16 - Republicans Governor Democrats Attorney General Democrats Agriculture Commissioner Republicans: Wilton Simpson Democrats: Naomi Blemur Florida Senate District 20 - Republicans Florida House District 57 - Republicans District 58 - Republicans and Democrats District 59 - Republicans District 62 - Democrats District 65 - Republicans District 68 - Republicans District 69 - Republicans Hillsborough Circuit Court judge Group 6 and 37 Hillsborough County Court judge Group 14 Pinellas-Pasco Circuit Court judge Group 22: Cynthia Newton Group 27: Keith Meyer Pinellas County Court judge Group 1: Della Cope Group 13: Kathleen “Kathy” Hessinger Pasco County Court judge Group 4: Patrick Moore Hillsborough County Commission District 4 - Republicans District 7 - Republicans Pinellas County Commission District 2 - Republicans: Brian Scott District 4 - Republicans: Dave Eggers Hillsborough School Board Groups 2, 4 and 6 Pinellas School Board Groups 2, 3, 6 and 7 Local referendums Hillsborough County school tax: No The recommendation process Before making a recommendation, the Times Editorial Board asks candidates to fill out questionnaires and sit for an interview. The process can also include running criminal and civil background checks, interviewing candidates’ colleagues and employers, reviewing voting records and financial disclosures and examining their past and current positions on relevant issues. Candidate replies Candidates not recommended by the editorial board are offered an opportunity to reply. Judicial candidates may send replies of up to 150 words by 5 p.m. Aug. 4 to Editor of Editorials Graham Brink at voterguide@tampabay.com. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.