TAMPA — Six months after limping their way into the offseason, the Bucs arrived at their inaugural preseason practice with nearly every hand on deck. Minus Chris Godwin’s hands. The sixth-year receiver, making a highly encouraging recovery from Jan. 3 surgery to repair torn knee ligaments, was the only prominent player absent from Wednesday morning’s workout. And even the news on Godwin — who was not placed on the team’s physically unable to perform list — was encouraging. “Chris has been working like crazy; he’s getting better every day,” coach Todd Bowles said after practice. “We don’t have a timetable yet, but when he comes out, we’ll be happy to have him come out. But he’s a diligent worker and we’re pleased where he is.” Equally encouraging was the sight of veteran inside linebacker Lavonte David, slowed late last season by a Lisfranc injury that kept him out of June’s mandatory minicamp. David, entering his 11th season, said he’s “100 percent” after spending virtually the whole summer in physical therapy. “Couldn’t really take no trips, no vacations,” he said. “Had to focus on my foot so I could be able to get back here, be with my guys.” Elsewhere, rookie tight end Cade Otton, a bystander during the rookie and mandatory minicamps while recovering from ankle surgery, was a full participant. So, too, was second-year special-teams regular Grant Stuard, sidelined during minicamp with an undisclosed injury. Currently, only two players — cornerback Don Gardner and offensive lineman Sadarius Hutcherson — are on the physically unable to perform list. “(The injured guys) worked on their off time during vacation,” Bowles said. “A lot of guys worked, they came in and they worked out pretty good, so we’re happy with that.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.