ST. PETERSBURG — Harold Ramirez was having a breakout year. Acquired from the Cubs in late March, he entered Sunday hitting .329, good for third best in the majors. Brandon Lowe said Ramirez has been “as much of All-Star” as anyone who will play Tuesday at Dodger Stadium. The 27-year-old Ramirez will miss at least four to five weeks, however, after fracturing his right thumb in the first inning Sunday when he was hit by a 91-mph fastball from Baltimore starter Jordan Lyles. “His presence is definitely going to be missed, especially in the lineup,” Lowe said. “But I hope that it doesn’t dull himself as a person, he can still show up and be the Harold Ramirez that’s brought that energy for us.” Surgery is not considered necessary at this time, but more will be known when he’s re-evaluated in two weeks. Cash and head athletic trainer Joseph Benge immediately came out of the dugout to assess the damage, with Ramirez eventually taking first base. He was replaced at first in the second inning by Luke Raley. Ramirez’s .366 batting average against lefties was fourth best in the big leagues, and he was 8-for-16 as a pinch hitter. Following his injury, only seven players on the Rays’ 28-man opening day roster have remained active all season. “Everyone’s just been getting hurt guy after guy,” Ramirez said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I just don’t want to see that happen to anyone anymore.” Pete Fairbanks ‘back to business’ Pete Fairbanks’ first pitch of the season Sunday was hit for a home run by Austin Hays in the eighth inning. Adley Rutschman followed with a double, but Fairbanks settled in to retire next three batters, including strikeouts of Ramon Urias and Jorge Mateo. Fairbanks was activated following his recovery from a right lat strain he sustained in late March during spring training. He said he initially didn’t believe he’d be able to return by the All-Star break. “I’ve had a good distraction in the past months,” he said, referencing his two children, “but it’s time to get back to business, thankfully.” Fellow reliever Jalen Beeks, though, went on the 15-day injured list (retroactive to July 15) after tweaking the back of his right knee while picking up the save Thursday against Boston. “Still not real worried about it,” Beeks said. “Hopefully just a quick stint and I’ll be back.” To make room for Fairbanks on the 40-man roster, right-hander Dusten Knight — currently in Durham — was designated for assignment. Miscellany Brett Phillips struck out looking against former Seminole High School teammate Joey Krehbiel in the eighth, though the fastball looked high. “That makes up for the triple I hit off you in Low-A where the right fielder missed it in the sun,” Phillips said he texted Krehbiel postgame. Phillips singled in their first big-league matchup in May. ... Yandy Diaz, who was hit by a pitch Saturday, was off Sunday, along with Ji-Man Choi. ... Randy Arozarena was thrown out at the plate while trying to score from first on a Lowe double. It was the Rays’ majors-most 46th out on the bases. ... Lowe, with four hits, has reached base in seven of his nine plate appearances since returning Saturday from the injured list. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.