Vote them out Elections 2022 I am tired of hearing people complain about politicians who are in their senior years as well as those who may be younger but already have 20 or 30 years in office. Their solution is “term limits.” Guess what? We already have them. It’s called the power of the vote — first in primaries and then general elections. If your elected official is not representing those in your area or you feel that they have been in office too long, vote them out. Of course, many of the people that I hear making these comments say that they are only speaking of other politicians and not theirs. Tom Craig, Riverview A climate crisis Heat waves are getting hotter and more frequent | July 20 Florida needs a public health strategy that recognizes that extreme heat is killing Americans in the here and now. Keep families connected to water and electric power with special attention given to high-risk populations. Provide adequate shelter and public transportation, and improve access to the healthcare providers who emphasize prevention and the wellness concept. Speak for human rights and dignity. Be wary of trickle-down plans that, maybe, will yield big results twenty years from now. If government can’t help the people who are suffering during today’s heat waves, why should voters believe that government agencies will be helpful in the future? If you want environmental peace, work for environmental justice. Robert Murphy, St. Petersburg The slow lane SunRunner, first bus rapid transit line in Tampa Bay, is opening in October | July 13 So they say that one of the reasons for the ridiculous and expensive SunRunner bus service is to ease congestion. Brilliant, so let’s take a full lane of two streets and restrict their use to a bus, which will only use it every 15 minutes. Yup, that will cut congestion. What a waste. Glen Getchell, Seminole Easy access SunRunner, first bus rapid transit line in Tampa Bay, is opening in October | July 13 There are a multitude of businesses on the beach that employ people that don’t live on the beach. With parking already scarce, the SunRunner will provide an easy way for workers to get to jobs without adding more cars onto the beach. It will benefit us in many ways, and is for the greater good. Jan McVey, St. Petersburg