For years, the former Ardent Mills flour mill stood tall as a reminder of Tampa’s industrial past in a neglected portion of a thriving downtown growing up around it. This week, a ceremony will be held to mark the demolition of the 84-year-old mill and celebrate the continuing transformation of a downtown poised to meet the challenges of the 21st century. It’s a moment to both reflect on the past and embrace the possibilities of a thriving, connected urban core attracting new investment, jobs, residents and opportunities for all of Tampa Bay to enjoy a lively, exciting city. The mill and its three acres, situated between downtown office towers and the bustling Port Tampa Bay, have been purchased by Strategic Property Partners. The property sits just north of SPP’s remarkable Water Street Tampa development that features new hotels, residences and offices that already are reshaping our city. It is a key missing link between the Channel District and downtown’s other bustling areas. In an earlier era, the mill was a focal point of an entirely different bustling area filled with hard workers and gritty industry in a port city. It opened in 1938 and operated for decades in an area featuring warehouses, a lumber yard and an asphalt factory. Steps away were the shipyards, banana docks and the industrial port teaming with dockworkers. Gradually, downtown Tampa grew up around the still-operating mill and sprouted office towers, a modern arena that’s home to the Tampa Bay Lightning, and cultural institutions such as The Florida Aquarium and the Tampa Bay History Center. Today, that part of the city also is home to one of America’s top 50 medical schools for research, a startup hub/technology incubator, and three respected schools for children. And now, of course, Water Street Tampa. The flour mill, which will relocate to a new facility at Port Tampa Bay’s Port Redwing near Apollo Beach, no longer fits in a reimagined downtown. Yet Tampa’s past will not be forgotten after the mill is gone. Much of this part of the city was laid out more than a century ago, created with leftover sand when crews dredged Ybor Channel. This is an opportunity to reconnect parts of the original street grid that connected these city blocks in the past. Planners also intend to preserve some of the flour mill’s silos and repurpose them. The dismantling of the flour mill is expected to take about three months. Making this milestone happen has required the collaboration of many government agencies, private businesses, and neighborhoods. These include the City of Tampa, the Tampa-Hillsborough Expressway Authority, the Channel District and Downtown Community Redevelopment Areas, the Tampa Downtown Partnership, and several development companies and contractors. This moment in the city’s history has been a long time coming, but the wait will be worth it. Filling in this missing link will better connect all of downtown. It will be easier for workers, residents, and visitors to get to work and to restaurants and cultural facilities. It also will be easier to walk your dog or ride your bike along safer routes. The flour mill soon will be gone, but the property will remain a key piece of downtown Tampa’s character as it links the old with the new. Lynda Remund is president and chief executive officer of the Tampa Downtown Partnership.