Editor’s note: The FreeUF Coalition is an informal group of UF individuals and constituencies concerned about matters of academic freedom and participatory university governance at the University of Florida. This column is adapted from a lengthier statement by the group. The University of Florida has for many years been building its reputation for excellent research, teaching and extension services. Recently, distrust and poor morale threaten to undo decades of work building UF’s reputation, and as faculty, staff and students, we feel betrayed by a recent guest column, “We UF Leaders Feel Vindicated and are Pushing Forward,” by outgoing UF President Kent Fuchs and former Faculty Senate chair David Bloom. They have effectively demonstrated the reason for our distrust, while contributing further to the breach, in essence declaring “There was never a problem; the media made it up.” The impulse to blame the media is a spiraling problem of its own, but not one that we expected our university president and former Faculty Senate chair to embrace. We want UF to live up to its ideals, abide by its own policies and procedures, and be the university we’ve been working hard to build. Our degrees and our careers are here, too. We want to see our administration working to fix problems rather than burying them. Fuchs and Bloom proclaim that, “the controversies over UF’s COVID response and accusations of political influence on academic freedom, research integrity and faculty hiring and tenure have been shown to have no merit.” This statement stands in direct contradiction to findings from both internal investigations and a federal district court ruling. The university denied multiple faculty members’ approvals to provide expert testimony and issued an official statement that, “as UF is a state actor, litigation against the state is adverse to UF’s interests.” In other words, the faculty cannot bring their expertise to bear in cases adverse to interests of the ruling political party. When reporting raised the attention of our academic accrediting body, UF administration did make changes to procedures for approving outside testimony, but the new policy offers more proclamations than substantive protections. It was enough to satisfy the accreditors, but it remains to be seen whether it will be maintained. The same kowtowing to political influence was evident in UF’s pandemic response, during which the UF president refused to advocate for campus control of safety measures, saying that he lacked authority to make decisions. Administration’s passive acceptance of statewide policies contradicted its own experts’ recommendations, and culminated in a 70-31 vote of no confidence in UF’s safety measures by the Faculty Senate — a major pronouncement of mistrust on the campus. Fuchs and Bloom also dismiss “allegations that UF bowed to political pressure to hire and grant tenure to Dr. Joseph Ladapo,” the state surgeon general. They claim that these have “no merit,” even though Bloom’s own Faculty Senate committee appointed to investigate the hire found egregious irregularities in the hiring process. The hire was initiated by upper administration and an offer of tenure was produced before the faculty had even conducted the required vote. The Faculty Senate committee’s report concluded that “the irregularities … appeared to violate the spirit, and in review the exact letter, of UF hiring regulations and procedures.” How can we rebuild trust, when our leaders deny or minimize what is in front of our eyes? Despite the University of Florida’s accomplishments, and rankings, faculty in the trenches are seeing signs that UF’s low faculty morale and struggles with heavy-handed political influence are beginning to erode our reputation and our ability to hire and retain talent. We hold out hope that incoming UF leadership will be able to stand up to political whims, with and accountability to our principles, policies, and procedures. Allan Frasheri is a student at the University of Florida, Kestrel Ward is a UF staffer, Sixue Chen is on the faculty and Steven Kirn is retired from the faculty. All four took part in the collective FreeUF writing process.