The big story: It’s still teacher raises. The cost of living has risen faster in parts of Florida than in most of the rest of the nation. Many teachers can’t afford it. They’re looking elsewhere, and many are leaving. On Thursday, the Pinellas Classroom Teachers Association made a big ask in hopes of stemming the outward tide. District officials said they support the need. But there’s only so much they can do. Read more here. Bay County officials said they are trying to increase employee pay even as the district’s tax rate decreases, WJHG reports. Hot topics Sex education: The Miami-Dade County School Board’s decision to reject sex education textbooks left the district without materials to teach the state mandated subject, the Miami Herald reports. The board is assessing its next steps. Book reviews: Facing new state requirements and increasingly vocal parents, the Clay County school district is preparing to revamp the way it determines the appropriateness of library books, WJAX reports. School nurses: The Palm Beach County school district renewed a contract for nursing services, but School Board members had concerns about how the services will be spread equitably around the district, WPBF reports. School board politics: Incumbent Pinellas County School Board member Caprice Edmond faces a challenge from conservative Maria Solanki. • Three St. Lucie County School Board incumbents face challenges, with academics and discipline among the key issues, TC Palm reports. Other school news School construction continues as summer break nears an end. Citrus County school workers are racing to complete construction and maintenance projects before students return, the Citrus County Chronicle reports. • Orange County will open five new schools in August, WKMG reports. Being bilingual can help kids learn. The Palm Beach County school district is opening its first Haitian Creole dual language program, WPTV reports. Where’s my kid’s bus? Several central Florida school districts are launching new programs to keep track of students riding the buses and where the buses are headed, WKMG reports. Do you have everything you need for the new school year? Florida’s annual back-to-school sales tax holiday begins Monday, WOFL reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... For those times you just need to chill. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.