ATLANTA —Though Chad Morris’ Arkansas tenure went poorly, the Razorbacks still have good things to say about USF’s new senior offensive analyst. “Nothing but love for him,” Arkansas defensive back Jalen Catalon said Wednesday during SEC media days. Morris went 4-18 with the Razorbacks in 2018-19 before getting fired during his second season. But he did make some clear positive impacts on the program. Morris signed Bumper Pool, who has blossomed into one of the SEC’s top linebackers and has a shot at becoming the Razorbacks’ all-time leading tackler this season. “I think he’s a great man,” Pool said. “(USF is) going to able to have a guy that goes in and helps their players become better men.” Morris also brought in quarterback KJ Jefferson, who passed for 21 touchdowns last season with the second-best completion percentage (67.3) in program history. Jefferson became a four-star recruit, but Morris’ staff was the first Power Five program to offer him a scholarship. “It just shows that he knows talent when he sees talent,” Jefferson said. Though Catalon didn’t even get to spend a full fall with Morris, he still stays in touch with his former coach and talks to his son, TCU quarterback Chandler Morris, regularly. “He’s a great guy,” Catalon said. “I think he’s still a really great coach. I think he’s going to do great things for the industry.” Morris isn’t the only connection between Arkansas and the Bulls. Cade Fortin — who started two games for USF last season — transferred to the Razorbacks and quickly made an impression on Jefferson. “He’s a veteran,” Jefferson said. “He’s been around, so he knows what it takes to win. Just his work ethic. There will be times we have to tell Cade, ‘Just chill. It’s break period now.’ “Just his motor for him to keep going and also the leadership that he brings into the quarterback room and then knowledge that he has, I’m learning from him.” • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.