The big story: State education officials on Thursday touted schools’ 2022 grades — based on the final year of Florida Standards Assessment results —as proof positive of the merits of Florida’s quick return to in-person classes during the pandemic. They pointed to statistics such as 84% of all schools that earned a D or F in 2019 improved in 2022. Overall, they reported, 469 schools increased their grade in 2022, while 825 schools maintained an A grade and 348 schools maintained a B grade. “When I reflect on these school grades and the recent test results, the significant student growth, achievement gap closure and school-wide achievements validate Florida’s approach to get our schools open first and return to normalcy as quickly as possible,” State Board of Education chairman Tom Grady said in a released statement. Not every school saw improvements. The Tampa Bay area had six schools drop to F grades, for instance. Overall, fewer schools earned A’s and B’s in 2022 than in 2019. Only about half of students scored Level 3 or better, considered passing, on many of the tests. Meanwhile, testing critics continued to question the validity and value of the information. Read the rest of the story here. For details about specific schools and districts, see the state data. Hot topics Race relations: The University of Central Florida briefly eliminated a department’s anti-racism statement, saying it violated new Florida law, the Orlando Sentinel reports. More from the NY Post. Campus safety: Martin County’s sheriff wants to extend law enforcement presence beyond traditional schools into preschools, WPBF reports. Teacher pay: The Miami-Dade County Commission unanimously agreed to place the school district’s property tax referendum on the November ballot, Florida Politics reports. The revenue would be used to boost employee salaries and pay for security improvements. • Lake County teachers reached an agreement to receive raises of up to $4,625, with starting pay up to $48,500, WESH reports. Teacher shortages: The St. Lucie County school district is trying to fill 200 teaching vacancies over the summer, WPTV reports. School board races: The battle for a Collier County board seat is expected to get heated as the incumbent faces challenges from a former member and a political newcomer, the Naples Daily News reports. • A Florida political action committee backing school choice efforts and candidates raised $850,000 in the most recent reporting month, the News Service of Florida reports. Other school news The Citrus County school district is expanding participation in a federally funded meals program. As a result, all Citrus County school students will be able to get free cafeteria meals, Bay News 9 reports. Flagler County is seeing a population boom. The county government is at odds with builders about how to collect school impact fees to fund new school construction, Flagler Live reports. The high school dropout rate in Florida and across the nation has declined for years. Many students still dropped out, Florida Phoenix reports. From the court docket ... A former Hillsborough County school principal took a plea deal in a sexting case. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... The Yu-Gi-Oh! manga, which spawned television anime series and trading card games, suddenly lost its creator. Kazuki Takahashi passed away at age 60 this week in Okinawa. In tribute, here’s the theme from one of the shows. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.