Marketable majors Science and engineering majors need early prep | Column, July 24 Professor Paul Cottle’s column barely touched on a major issue in high school science and math education. Those with the knowledge and skills to teach calculus, physics and chemistry can instead become engineers, scientists and computer professionals. Market-based starting salaries in those fields are far higher than that of a new teacher and that ratio persists through a typical career. Teacher pay structures that follow a one-size-fits-all model foolishly ignore labor market realities. STEM majors have options. Add in factors like poor student discipline and “woke” petty tyrant administrators, and it is a miracle that anyone with these skills would choose to teach STEM in our public schools. Our economic and national security needs demand a better answer. Raymond Baker, St. Petersburg How they got rich Incoming Florida leaders outline their priorities | July 26 Incoming Florida House Speaker Paul Renner tells us “woke billionaires” aim to destroy America’s energy sector, agriculture sector, and are “going against a lot of things that make America work.” What? Renner fumbles on his attempt at trendy “anti-woke” rhetoric. Had Renner been around 120 years ago he would be attacking Henry Ford and Thomas Edison for “going against” the wagon/harness/draft animal industry and the lantern/candle industry “that make America work”? After all, those industries served America since our creation. Question: How do billionaires get to be billionaires? (A) They throw their fortunes into oddball political ideologies. (B) They put their talent and investment into things that improve lives for Americans because there is no profit in making things worse. Renner chooses “A.” Innovators can be disruptive, but Americans and American capitalism reward them for their insights. That’s how they become billionaires. Unfortunately, Renner works to suppress that in order to maintain the status quo that so amply rewards Paul Renner. He can do that in a closed system where he and his allies control all the power and decision-making. That is different from working in the public’s best interests. Virgil Pope, Parrish The crime of voting ‘Tricked’ into voting, charged with fraud | July 24 People show up at prisons to sign men up to vote, who are then charged with crimes because they did. They add to the fees and up to a year in prison longer. This is not what was voted for. Unbelievable. Retired attorneys, here is your new hobby. Help these men. Kathy Dreyer, Asheboro, North Carolina