ST. PETERSBURG — Tommy Romero went to the locker room happy Thursday night after retiring the side in the seventh inning, his first action since being recalled from Triple-A Durham two days prior. He didn’t realize he had picked up his first big-league win, though, until his teammates showered him with beer, shaving cream, powder and other substances he couldn’t determine with his eyes closed. “It was awesome,” the 25-year-old right-hander said. “It was probably the most fun I’ve had since being up here.” The Red Sox had a 3-0 lead when Romero stuck out Franchy Cordero before getting ground outs from Kevin Plawecki and Jackie Bradley Jr. The Rays’ five-run outburst in the bottom half of the inning led Cash to switch to high-leverage reliever Brooks Raley but also made Romero the 20th Ray to record a win this season, passing Minnesota for most in the majors. Romero said he felt more like a big leaguer Thursday than during his two appearances in April, when he allowed four runs in 3 2/3 total innings, walking five in his debut. “Coming back here, it made it feel more real,” he said. “They need me now, so it just feels better to be up here the second time.” His celebration may be short-lived, however. The Rays have to open a spot on the roster to activate Friday starter Luis Patino from the injured list and may send Romero back to Durham. Patino ready to put on his pants Patino knows Shane Baz (right elbow sprain) rejoining 11 other Rays pitchers on the injured list is not ideal. “But like we say in Colombia, ‘You’ve got to put the pants on to replace that,’ ” Patino said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Patino clarified that means showing why he’s pitching in the big leagues, which he’ll do Friday. Patino has been out since early April with a left oblique strain, but his return was delayed by a blister on his right middle finger that forced him out of his last rehab start with Durham on July 2, when he got through three innings. Rays manager Kevin Cash said the right-hander likely will not go “very deep” against the Orioles after taking several intermittent “down days” to let the blister heal. Patino had a different answer when asked how many innings he expected to throw. “Nine,” he said, briefly switching to English. “I’m ready. Why not? (I’ve) been working for that.” Miscellany Pete Fairbanks (right lat strain) forced the only batter he faced to ground out to close the sixth inning for Triple-A Durham. He threw a complete inning Wednesday, retiring the side. … Brandon Lowe (low back discomfort) went 0-for-4 for a second straight night with the Bulls. ... Bucs rookie running back Rachaad White threw out the first pitch Thursday. The third-round pick out of Arizona State didn’t have time to warm up after arriving to Tropicana Field just minutes before game time. ... Bally Sports Sun reporter Tricia Whitaker will perform the national anthem Friday. Times staff writer Marc Topkin contributed to this report. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.