KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Rays manager Kevin Cash has a first-hand appreciation for the accomplishments that put David Ortiz into position to be inducted into the Hall of Fame on Sunday. Cash teamed with Ortiz for parts of three seasons (2007-08, 2010) in Boston and played and managed against him for years both before and afterward. “A spectacular career,” Cash said. “Really awesome teammate. As much as any player that I’ve been around, how a city just completely embraced him and he embraced the city. It was pretty awesome to kind of be close and sit and watch that close by.” One of the characteristics that made Ortiz special, Cash said, was the way he treated teammates, especially some of the fringe players. “He was very welcoming,” Cash said. “He treated everybody equally. He could have chosen, being a superstar, to nonchalantly just pass by if you weren’t an everyday player. “He was remarkable in the way he went out of his way for the call-ups, the guys that were up and down and then the guys that were the 24th and 25th players on the roster.” Aside from some apparently epic clubhouse card games, Cash said there were too many Ortiz moments to have a favorite. “Anytime he stepped up to the plate, if the game was tied or we were behind, it felt like he was always the guy you wanted up there,” Cash said. Diaz locked in Yandy Diaz on Friday reached base in his 20th consecutive start, with just an unsuccessful pinch-hit appearance in between, and increased his average to .400 (30-for-75, 12 doubles), with a 1.055 OPS, over the 21-game stretch. “He’s a very consistent hitter, just with his approach,” Cash said. “He can simplify things. We’ve always talked about how he’s able to hit really good pitching, have good at-bats against good pitching, spoil pitches, and I think that’s what we’re seeing right now.” Rehab report Brendan McKay (thoracic outlet syndrome surgery), Yonny Chirinos (Tommy John surgery) and JT Chargois (oblique strain) each threw an inning Saturday morning in rehab appearances for the Florida Complex League team in Port Charlotte. McKay, in his first game since Aug. 17, allowed one hit and one walk. Chirinos, in his second game after August 2020 surgery and several setbacks, allowed one hit and struck out two. Chargois, who pitched only in the April 8 season opener, had a 1-2-3 inning. … Also rehabbing with the FCL team are lefty Cody Reed and righty Aaron Slegers. Miscellany A group of 35 players, coaches and staff toured the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum on Saturday morning. ... Reliever Jason Adam, who grew up in the Kansas City area and whose parents still live there, provided tickets for 64 relatives and friends Saturday, joking he was playing for free that day but “we do get free babysitting” when in town. … Top pitching prospect Taj Bradley will make his first start for Triple-A Durham on Sunday, having been promoted from Double-A after pitching in the All-Star Futures Game. ... Newly acquired Roman Quinn was slated for his first start Saturday night as the Rays planned to bat eight left- or switch-hitters against Royals righty Brady Singer. ... Friday’s win was the Rays’ 16th without a homer, second-most to the Guardians’ 17.… Top 2020 draft pick Nick Bitsko, working his way back from shoulder surgery, had a tough outing Thursday for the FCL team, throwing 16 balls on 17 pitches, allowing four walks and a two-run single. In seven games (11 innings) overall, he is 1-2 with a 10.64 ERA, 15 walks and 11 strikeouts. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.