A career educator will get a second term on the Pinellas County School Board if she can survive a challenge from an entrepreneur with proposals about choice, nutrition and accountability. Maria Solanki, 37, says she should be elected to represent southern Pinellas’ District 7 because incumbents including Caprice Edmond have presided over substandard schools. “So many of the low-performing schools are in her district,” Solanki told the Tampa Bay Times editorial board. “This is a community that she says she strives to represent. But I still feel that they are being neglected.” Edmond, 34, has been a teacher, teaching coach and Guardian Ad Litem. After graduating from Gibbs High School she attended the University of South Florida, earning a bachelor’s and two master’s degrees. She earned board member certification from the Florida School Boards Association. She was elected in 2020 to fill the remainder of Rene Flowers’ term after Flowers left to run for a county commission seat. To Solanki’s remark about low-performing schools, Edmond noted that many families in her district face economic challenges that were exacerbated during the pandemic. She said the district has made progress to improve student skills and expand services, including preschool. “But we can do better,” she added. At the height of the pandemic, Edmond pushed for mandatory masking and incurred backlash from vocal residents who did not want masks on school children. But she also received messages of appreciation from people countywide. And, she said, “the majority of the people in the area I’m elected to represent heavily support me.” Solanki, a swim school operator, is a strong proponent of school choice. She tried unsuccessfully in 2019 to open a state-funded charter school that would have emphasized a plant-based, eco-friendly lifestyle. She favors extending tax-paid transportation to fundamental, magnet, charter and private schools. But she is a fiscal conservative, raised to “use the toothpaste until you can’t squeeze any more out,” she said. Her cost-saving ideas include setting school thermostats higher so students do not have to wear sweatshirts. On her website, Solanki declares: “I am running for School Board because I am sick of all these tyrants and their nonsense.” That feeling came from the cold reception she got from school board members to her charter school, she said. She also criticized board members with low-scoring schools in their districts. “Their laziness, lack of innovation, and incompetence are putting kids at risk,” she wrote. Edmond said she is confident in her record and reputation. “I think people would say I am personal,” she said. “I am actively engaged in the community, and not just during election times. I genuinely care about all children.”