BOSTON — The Rays seem certain to have starter Shane McClanahan named to the American League All-Star team when full rosters are announced Sunday. Could reliever Jason Adam also be chosen by his peers or MLB officials? “I don’t see why he wouldn’t,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “You look at relievers and relievers’ numbers and the leverage that he’s pitched in for us, it’s been pretty high leverage. And he kind of came out of nowhere doing it with just a ton of success.’’ Adam has done impressive work for the Rays, especially after being thrust into late-inning and high-leverage situations following injuries to JP Feyereisen and Andrew Kittredge, compiling a 1.39 ERA. Of his 35 appearances, 10 have come with the scored tied and 14 with the Rays leading by three runs or less. He has allowed no runs in 31 appearances and no hits in 24; has stranded his last 19 inherited runners and 22 of 23 in all; and limited opponents to a .150 average and .442 OPS, second-lowest among AL pitchers with at least 30 innings. “That would be an honor, an absolute honor,” Adam said. “And a dream come true. So that would be awesome.” Adam figures he can’t lose. Either he gets to go to Los Angeles to pitch, or he and his wife and three daughters get to go early to his hometown of Kansas City, where the Rays open post-break play, and hang out with his parents. “If (an All-Star selection) happens, great,” he said. “And if not, great. I’ll get to enjoy my time with my family.” Lowe to start rehab Slugging second baseman Brandon Lowe, out since mid-May with a stress reaction in his lower back, will start a rehab assignment Thursday at Triple-A Durham with a target of returning after the July 18-21 All-Star break. Lowe will DH on Thursday and work into a mix of playing the field. “It’s a good sign,” Cash said. “We’re excited that he’s able to get regular game reps and even the active activity leading up to the game.” … Reliever Pete Fairbanks, out since a spring lat strain and also looking at a post-break return, made his second rehab appearance for the Bulls Wednesday, throwing 21 pitches to five batters, allowing one hit and two walks. Brujan sent back to Triple-A Vidal Brujan was optioned to Triple-A after the game, clearing a spot on the active roster for infielder Yu Chang, who was claimed off waivers Tuesday from Pittsburgh and will join the team Friday in Cincinnati. Brujan, after going 1-for-4 Wednesday, was hitting .167 through 45 games with a .476 OPS. Sending Brujan back to Durham will give him an opportunity to play more regularly and regain some confidence. Miscellany The Rays won back-to-back series for the first time since mid-May against the Blue Jays and Tigers and are now 17-16 against AL East opponents. ... The game was the 17th in which Rays pitchers allowed one or no runs. ... Infield prospect Curtis Mead, the Australian acquired in a trade with Philadelphia, was among the early selections for the July 16 All-Star Futures Game in Los Angeles; full rosters will be announced Thursday. … Though Isaac Paredes has been one of the Rays’ productive hitters, Cash gave him Wednesday off, noting he had played eight straight days. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.