TORONTO — The decision by relievers Brooks Raley and Ryan Thompson to not get vaccinated raises questions. Perhaps most relevant: Are they letting their Rays teammates down? Specifically in knowing that Canada has a vaccine mandate in place, which keeps them from playing games against the American League East rival Blue Jays in this key series, in a likely bigger one in in September and in a potential postseason matchup. It’s a fair question, no matter which side of the vaccine issue one falls on.  It is also a question that is being raised elsewhere. When the Red Sox played in Toronto without unvaccinated closer Tanner Houck and blew a ninth-inning lead Tuesday, Boston Globe columnist Dan Shaughnessy went in hard with this tweet: “Most richly-deserved loss ever. Anti-vax Sox closer is back in Boston enjoying personal freedom, while Sox pen blows 5-4 lead in the 9th. Pen never got an out in the ninth. Sox are 2-7 vs. Jays, 7-16 vs. AL East. But everybody evidently ok with Tanner Houck quitting on team.” For Rays officials, who prefer to keep such matters in house, this is the second issue to surface in the last month reflecting a difference of opinion in their clubhouse: More than five players (including Raley and Thompson) declined to wear rainbow colored logos on their caps and jersey sleeves for the June 4 Pride Night game. Asked a couple times Thursday about having to face the potent Jays without the two somewhat key relievers, manager Kevin Cash said they talked with the players about the vaccine issue earlier this year. “We’re going to support whatever each individual chooses or chooses not to do moving forward.” As with other teams, Rays officials encouraged players to get vaccinated and made accommodations if they chose to. At least one holdout agreed earlier this season to get the shot.   The players who remain unvaccinated felt strong enough in their beliefs that they were willing, under an agreement between MLB and the union, to give up service time and pay: approximately $93,406 over the four missed days for Raley, who has a $4.25 million salary, and about $15,615 for Thompson, who makes $710,500. And strong enough to not be available to their team at a key juncture, even though most other days players say, somewhat by rote, they’ll do whatever it takes to help their team win.  Rays team leader Kevin Kiermaier said he had “no issue” with the two relievers opting out  and knows players who decided against getting the vaccine “are stern” about it. “I respect my teammates’ decisions,” Kiermaier said. “I don’t hold anything against them whatsoever. That’s their choice. That’s what they want to do. I’m okay with it. Live your life. It’s okay. We’ve got guys coming up, filling in. “I know how people can easily look at it from the other side; I just choose not to do that. If I made a personal choice that some of these guys weren’t a fan of … I want my teammates to have my back and know that there’s a reason or logic for whatever they’re doing. With this situation, I’ve got no issue whatsoever with it.” Ex-Rays rumblings Evan Longoria, 36 and in the last year of the $100 million extension he signed with the Rays in 2012, with a $13 million option/$5 million buyout for 2023, told the San Francisco Chronicle’s Susan Slusser that he is considering retirement: “I’m trying not to think about it because I haven’t made up my mind. ... Some days, I feel good and I feel like I could play for another five years. And then there are other days where I come in here and I feel like I’m 100 years old and like, ‘This is it.’” If he does retire, he would be free to be honored at the Trop next year for a 25th anniversary season event. … A remarkably bulked-up Kyle Farnsworth, who pitched for the Rays 2011-13 and is now 46, recently won three medals in his first venture into bodybuilding competitions. … Willy Adames, Mike Brosseau and hitting coach Ozzie Timmons were understandably the headliners during the Brewers’ quick visit, but a nod goes to reliever Brad Boxberger, who was an All-Star for the Rays in 2015 and at age 34, and six teams later, is pitching effectively. … Brosseau wasn’t kidding; Adames’ popularity is such that there really are T-shirts being sold calling the city Willy-Waukee. Rays rumblings Randy Arozarena’s 416,018 votes were by far the most All-Star nods for any Ray, but 800,000-plus short of advancing in the voting. Shane McClanahan looks like their only rep, with pitchers and reserves to be named July 10. … Several design formats are circulating internally for the Rays’ version of the City Connect uniform series, which will debut in 2024. … As the Rays’ latest stadium talks proceed, one big question for St. Petersburg officials to get answered is whether MLB ultimately will accept a plan to rebuild at the Tropicana Field site. … The Rays (and Rowdies) are looking to hire a specialist to “enhance the team’s public affairs and military-related initiatives.” … Baseball America’s latest mock draft has the Rays taking Nevada high school lefty Robby Snelling with the No. 29 pick July 17. MLB.com has them on Liberty Union (Ohio) High right-hander Jacob Miller. … Craig Counsell, who withdrew as a candidate for the Rays job before Kevin Cash was hired in late 2014, recently became the Brewers’ all-time winningest manager. Among those sending a congratulatory video was Bucs quarterback Tom Brady. How? Why? “I have not met Tom Brady,” Counsell said. “I think the connection there is with our owner (Mark Attanasio) and with (legendary broadcaster) Bob Uecker, and with (outfielder Christian) Yelich a little bit.” ... The Athletic named shortstop prospect Greg Jones as the Rays’ “tradeable player” in a league-wide list. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.