The big story: Florida’s law establishing a survey of student and faculty political and philosophical views has been in place more than a year. Rumors keep circulating about it. Most recently, part-time Florida resident horror writer Stephen King posted on social media that the state is requiring students and professors to register their positions with the state. He based his statement on a national publication’s report. They’re both wrong. Check out Politifact Florida’s explanation. Hot topics Race lessons: Gov. DeSantis accused the Biden Administration of trying to “buy off” school districts in Florida and across the nation to adopt “critical race theory.” Politifact takes a look into that claim, too. • A federal judge will allow a challenge of Florida’s new law restricting race lessons to advance, the Florida Politics reports. Educators have argued the law restricts their free speech. Gender issues: The Broward County school district donated boxes of LGBTQ-themed children’s books to a local museum, just before the state’s new law on instruction about gender identity took effect, the Sun-Sentinel reports. • Florida’s new law is one of 10 nationally that target LGBTQ student issues, the Washington Post reports. • As these measures take hold, some students and parents worry about what will happen next, Chalkbeat reports. Enrollment: A Flagler County middle school that got rid of portable classrooms 14 years ago is bringing them back to campus for the coming year amid booming growth, Flagler Live reports. • Community college leaders said enrollment declined dramatically during the pandemic, and is starting to rebound, WUSF reports. Educator discipline: Staff at an Orange County school are upset about how the district is handling complaints over their principal’s treatment of a teacher accused of making racist comments toward students, WKMG reports. Drug education: The Jackson County school district and Sheriff’s Office are bringing the DARE program to area schools, WJHG reports. College applications: Some high school students are taking colleges and universities off their application list because of the abortion laws in those states, including Florida, Reuters reports. Before you go ... Okay, superhero movie fans. A new Shazam is on the way. It even has Helen Mirren as a villain. Comic-con got a teaser. Check it out. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.