Congrats, Justice Jackson First Black woman on high court is sworn in | July 1 What an exciting day for fair-minded people it was to see Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson sworn in as the newest justice on the U.S. Supreme Court. I’d love to know how she feels about being the first qualified, meritorious Black person to serve there since Justice Thurgood Marshall left the court in 1991. Steve Douglas, St. Petersburg The women supported her Cassidy Hutchinson is the Jan. 6 witness we’ve been waiting for | Column, June 30 Cassidy Hutchinson’s testimony to the Jan. 6 committee was second only in the integrity and bravery to that shown by Rep. Liz Cheney. To then see her derided as “a glorified receptionist and coffee fetcher” and a “grifter” by various Donald Trump supporters was disheartening, an insult to her bravery and the intelligence of the listeners. Reading the article in the Tampa Bay Times, I noted that support for her knowledge and integrity as well as competence, came solely from female colleagues. That certainly confirms what I’ve long thought about the attitude toward women in the GOP. Sharyn Steiner, Largo Freedom from religion After Roe falls, ’rage donations’ surge | June 30 Here’s a plea to those who truly believe the Constitution offers us freedom of religion but also from religion. Please focus your energy and votes toward those of the same belief and firmly away from anyone whose efforts take us toward any sort of theocracy. The arrogance that American freedom can somehow be guided by any particular religious dogma and practice? Turn these folks away from anything political, while always assuring them freedom to practice their own religious beliefs. Many of those who first immigrated to America in frail ships across the Atlantic were escaping just this sort of church-state persecution, and it was their vision of liberty we enjoy this Fourth of July weekend. Jack Parrish, Tampa Stop the speeders Tampa Bay grapples with roadway deaths | July 1 Spokespeople suggest that the way to reduce roadway deaths is to change the lighting and lane markings. All good — let’s just spend more money to fix a problem that exists because law enforcement cannot grapple with all the violators. When violating drivers get arrested for speeding and red light running, and then get a hefty fine, our roadway deaths will drop dramatically. Our law enforcement actions need to be ramped up. Problem solved. Donald Brugman, St. Petersburg