A recent viral story claimed that students and instructors at Florida’s public universities are required to complete a so-called “intellectual viewpoint diversity” survey, asking about their beliefs and ideological experiences on campus, designed to assess whether “indoctrination” is taking place. In reality, the April survey was voluntary, but the survey has prompted fears of discrimination on all sides, fomenting the very politicized environment the questionnaire is designed to measure while depressing the free discourse its creators hoped to facilitate. By its nature, an ideological survey raises important issues of free speech, academic freedom and the importance of maintaining universities in which all points of view are welcome and open for debate. Some voiced profound concerns about a state-sponsored survey asking for personal and political information that could, in the worst of worlds, become a basis for discrimination or retaliation. Some worried that the instrument was both ineffective and inherently polarizing. After all, a survey about individual opinions cannot measure a process of indoctrination, but it arguably threatens to politicize campuses. Concerns were also raised about how to assess the data: What would be considered a “good” or “bad” result, and how might the legislature use these results in policymaking or funding decisions? Indeed, results are expected soon, but they are unlikely to tell us much, because the survey itself was riddled with philosophical, methodological, and practical problems. The state university system contracted with researchers to “create an objective, nonpartisan and statistically valid survey,” as required by HB 233, the state law mandating the questionnaire. But documents released as part of a lawsuit revealed that some of those researchers raised alarms about the questionnaire’s use and design. One wrote, “While I do not know what the implications of this survey will be, I do know this is not a good survey.” It is not clear how much these researchers were involved in the final version, but the project remains fundamentally flawed because the survey contributes directly to the problem it is trying to measure: political polarization and silencing. The survey asks whether takers feel uncomfortable sharing political views on campus, without considering that the survey itself may be the source of the discomfort it measures. Many takers say it was. Notably, it appears not to have been vetted through the Institutional Review Board audit, which ensures human-involved research meets ethical standards, as required at all Florida universities and by federal regulations. Perhaps to allay concerns about participant anonymity, the survey was also distributed without any security safeguards guaranteeing that only faculty and students could participate, or ensuring that participants could complete it only once. As a result, anyone could take the survey, not just the intended students and faculty on Florida campuses who received the invitation. Florida newspapers reported that links to access the survey were distributed en masse to non-university affiliates, who could complete it multiple times. This means that whatever “data” the survey collected is effectively meaningless. While administrators reported that approximately 9,000 faculty and 9,000 students had completed the survey — about 3 percent of the total state university system population — we have no idea how many were actually members of our university communities, or even how many discrete individuals participated. These security failures mean that no legitimate results or conclusions can be drawn. Our faculty senates took no position on whether to participate, leaving that to individual judgment. On one hand, we think lawmakers would be reassured by an honest accounting of the vibrant ideological diversity on our campuses, and how our faculty encourage freedom of speech, thought, and discourse in our teaching. On the other hand, the serious concerns raised about the purpose, ethics and statistical validity of this survey render it incapable of providing that honest accounting. Whatever its objectives, an ideological survey of this nature makes it harder, not easier, to maintain academic communities where everyone feels free to exchange ideas, and where all viewpoints remain welcome and open for debate. As leaders representing faculty from the full spectrum of university disciplines, we recommit ourselves to these principles every day — and we think the vast majority of Americans would agree with them. After all, this is what universities are for — and especially public universities. To keep them free, we must resist politicization from all sources. The public universities we represent remain the embodiment of the public square — perhaps the last great public square — in which people from all different walks of life come together to learn from one another. These are the spaces in which we build the foundational skills all Americans need to live and work together notwithstanding — and indeed, in celebration of — what makes each of us who we are. It is essential to protect this great American space — the public university — the laboratory in which our common citizenship is nurtured and reconfirmed. An ideological viewpoint survey moves us in the wrong direction, reinforcing polarization and fear, and potentially engendering even more distrust if results are misused. In the end, we believe that our faculty, students, lawmakers and fellow citizens all basically want the same thing: to be free, to share ideas (even uncomfortable ones), to agree and disagree, and to explore new ways of thinking without fear. Even if administered in good faith to advance laudable objectives, a survey like this is a clumsy and potentially dangerous strategy that threatens to politicize higher education at exactly the moment we must reinforce common ground. We encourage everyone to learn from this experience and honor that sacred trust. There is no higher calling, and especially now, there is no greater need. Professor Amanda J. Phalin, a senior lecturer at the University of Florida, is the chair of UF’s Faculty Senate. Professor Erin Ryan, the Elizabeth C. & Clyde W. Atkinson Professor of Law at Florida State University, is the former vice chair of the FSU Faculty Senate and now sits on its Steering Committee.