KANSAS CITY, Mo. — With all that has gone wrong for the Rays so far this season and with as much as they are hoping to go right — such as getting back at least some of their key injured players — they still feel pretty good about where they are coming out of the All-Star break. And where they think it can get them in October. As the Rays resume play Friday against the Royals with 70 games remaining, they have the third-best record in the American League (and sixth overall) at 51-41. And while they are well behind the East-leading Yankees, they hold the top AL wild-card spot and a 3-1/2-game cushion to make the playoff field. “We’re very optimistic,” general manager Peter Bendix said. “I think this group has gone through a lot of ups and downs, but it’s still a very talented group that’s pretty well positioned right now. “They’re still really young. I think every day that they go through the season and experience different things, they are going to be better off for it. And I think that by the end of the season, this group has a chance to be really, really a team that nobody wants to face in the playoffs.” Or as infielder Yandy Diaz said via team interpreter Manny Navarro, “We have the team with the most guys (16) on the (injured list) and, you never know, we just might be the team to go to the World Series.” Here are five key people who will impact their path. Brandon Lowe The Rays were thrilled to have the slugging second baseman back in the lineup last weekend after a two-month absence due to a low back injury that followed a likely related slow start. Now their hope is to have him at his best, knowing he is capable of extended hot streaks that can add some much-needed power, as well as depth and welcomed consistency, to their lineup. “The fact that Brandon Lowe is healthy is a really huge boost to our lineup,” Bendix said. “Having his 39 home runs in the middle of the lineup, having his kind of presence in the lineup, it lengthens it out. And that really makes a really big difference, I think, when looking at the lineup with him and without him. So, hopefully he’s able to stay healthy and be the hitter that we know he can be.” Luis Patino With Shane Baz out and workload concerns about the four remaining starters (Corey Kluber, All-Star Shane McClanahan, Drew Rasmussen and Jeffrey Springs, who is due back this weekend), the Rays need somebody to step up in their rotation. And — unless or until they trade for a starter — Patino looks, somewhat by default, to be their best hope. His July 15 return from an April oblique strain, further delayed by a blister, was just okay (with an average fastball velocity 94.4 mph, down a few ticks). They may find ways to best work him back in, but at some point they need to see more. “He’s a key for us,” manager Kevin Cash said. “He looked healthy (July 15). Now, let’s build back the velocity, let’s build back the pitch execution, get him in a rhythm (so) that he can contribute. (That) would be really helpful to our pitchers. Our starting pitchers have done a nice job to date, but they’ve also logged a lot of innings.” Joe Benge Injuries have been an issue for the Rays all season, to the point that Cash said the No. 1 key post-break is “to get healthy.” Arguably, head athletic trainer, Benge has has been the busiest person on the staff. Though mostly out of his control, the progress some of the team’s key injured players make toward getting back in August and September could well determine how the season turns out. Consider how different the Rays would look with reliever JP Feyereisen and position players Wander Franco, Manuel Margot and Harold Ramirez back. And at least some of the others, such as hitters Kevin Kiermaier and Mike Zunino; and pitchers Nick Anderson, Baz, Jalen Beeks, JT Chargois, Yonny Chirinos and Josh Fleming. Ace right-hander Tyler Glasnow could be a huge addition, though Bendix said “right now the chances of him pitching this year remain pretty small, but we’re not going to rule anything out, for sure.” Randy Arozarena The most consistent thing about the Rays’ offense this season has been its inconsistency, and while there have been a number of strugglers (Josh Lowe, Brett Phillips, Taylor Walls, Isaac Paredes of late), Arozarena has been the most visible. All went into the break doing better, which was somewhat encouraging. The Rays averaged 5.44 runs over their last 16 games (fourth-most in the majors) after 3.96 through their first 76 (26th). Arozarena is hitting .269 with five homers, 12 RBIs and an .891 OPS over his last 20 games, compared to .249-7-31-.700 in his first 68. Cutting down on his baserunning mistakes would help, too. “I think our offense has shown signs of really coming together,” Cash said. “We’ve got to find a way to be a little bit more consistent with that. It feels like we’ve had some droughts in between some of those hot streaks.” Juan Soto No, the Nationals multi-talented mega star (likely) will not be traded to Tampa Bay. Nor will top available catcher Willson Contreras of the Cubs. But the tremendous depth of the Rays’ farm system will give them the opportunity to explore voluminous trade options as ways to bolster their injury-depleted roster and improve their postseason chances, in ways small, big and Internet-breaking. “We’re always going to be exploring every player that might be available,” Bendix said. “And I think we’ve built up enough depth in our farm system that I think there is a possibility for just about any player who’s out there. So, I think we’re going to be in the middle of a lot of these discussions.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.