Mike Trout and Shohei Ohtani of the Los Angeles Angels were elected Friday to start in the July 19 All-Star Game along with outfielders Mookie Betts and Trea Turner of the host Dodgers. Toronto catcher Alejandro Kirk and Miami second baseman Jazz Chisholm Jr. were voted to start as first-time All-Stars, finishing atop their positions in the second round of fan voting. Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees and Ronald Acuña Jr. of the World Series champion Atlanta Braves were elected from the first round of balloting as the top vote-getters in their leagues. The AL starting lineup includes Blue Jays first baseman Vladimir Guerrero Jr., Houston second baseman Jose Altuve, Chicago White Sox shortstop Tim Anderson, Boston third baseman Rafael Devers and Kirk behind the plate. Giancarlo Stanton of the Yankees joined Judge and Trout in the outfield, while Ohtani was voted in as designated hitter. Ohtani became the first two-way All-Star last year when he was voted the AL DH, then was picked for the pitching staff and started on the mound. Judge and Stanton will become the first Yankees teammates to start in the outfield together since Dave Winfield and Rickey Henderson in 1988. NL starters include Chicago Cubs catcher Willson Contreras, St. Louis first baseman Paul Goldschmidt, Chisholm at second, Turner at shortstop, San Diego third baseman Manny Machado and an outfield of Betts, Acuña and San Francisco’s Joc Pederson. Philadelphia’s Bryce Harper was elected at DH but will be replaced in the starting lineup after breaking his left thumb when hit by a pitch from San Diego’s Blake Snell on June 25. Harper earned his seventh All-Star selection, his sixth as a starter. Trout was picked for the 10th time, his ninth as a starter. Altuve and Goldschmidt earned their eighth All-Star trips and Stanton was picked for the fifth time but the first since Miami traded him to the Yankees ahead of the 2018 season. In addition to Chisholm and Kirk, Anderson, Peterson and Turner were elected for their first All-Star starts. Stanton beat Toronto’s George Springer 22% to 20% for the final AL outfield spot after finishing fourth, just behind Springer, in the opening round. Ohtani defeated Houston’s Yordan Alvarez 52% to 48% at DH. Machado edged the Cardinals’ Nolan Arenado 51% to 49% at NL third base, and Turner beat out Atlanta’s Dansby Swanson 52% to 48%. Chisholm got 59% of the NL second base vote after finishing second to the Braves’ Ozzie Albies in the first round. Devers received 60% at third base in the AL after finishing second to Cleveland’s José Ramírez in the opening round. Goldschmidt earned a $250,000 bonus for his selection, Altuve, Harper, Stanton and Trout get $50,000 each, and Anderson receives $25,000. The first phase of voting ran from June 8-30 and the second phase from Tuesday until Friday. Pitchers and reserves will be announced Sunday. Baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred added a 33rd player to each roster Friday, selecting Albert Pujols of St. Louis and Miguel Cabrera of Detroit for career achievements. By RONALD BLUM AP Baseball Writer All-Star Game starters Tuesday, July 19 At Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles American League Catcher — Alejandro Kirk, Toronto Blue Jays First Baseman — Vladimir Guerrero Jr., Toronto Blue Jays Second Baseman — Jose Altuve, Houston Astros Shortstop — Tim Anderson, Chicago White Sox Third Baseman — Rafael Devers, Boston Red Sox Designated Hitter — Shohei Ohtani, Los Angeles Angels Outfield — Aaron Judge, New York Yankees Outfield — Mike Trout, Los Angeles Angels Outfield — Giancarlo Stanton, New York Yankees< National League Catcher — Wilson Contreras, Chicago Cubs First Baseman — Paul Goldschmidt, St. Louis Second Baseman — Jazz Chisholm Jr., Miami Marlins Shortstop — Trea Turner, Los Angeles Dodgers Third Baseman — Manny Machado, San Diego Padres Designated Hitter — Bryce Harper, Philadelphia Phillies Outfield — Ronald Acuna Jr., Atlanta Braves Outfield — Mookie Betts, Los Angeles Dodgers Outfield — Joc Pederson, San Francisco Giants • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.