TAMPA — Cade Otton could become one of the steals of the Bucs’ 2022 draft class, a productive player who might have gone higher if not for an ankle injury that required surgery in November. The fourth-round pick from Washington was unable to participate in the Bucs’ organized team activities as well as the rookie and mandatory minicamps while recovering from his injury. But Otton has been cleared by the Bucs to practice when first training camp begins on July 27. The Bucs are expected to have a couple players who will begin training camp on the physically unable to perform list. Likely among them is receiver Chris Godwin, who has been progressing well from the torn ACL he suffered Dec. 20. Godwin’s status is expected to be updated next week. In four seasons at Washington, Otton caught 91 passes for 1,026 yards and nine touchdowns. The 6-foot-5, 247-pounder figures to play a prominent role following the retirement of Rob Gronkowski. Otton is a classic Y or in-line tight end who can run-block and catch. He and fellow rookie Ko Kieft, a sixth-round pick from Minnesota, should benefit from the Bucs’ signing of veteran free agent Kyle Rudolph. Rudolph, 32, agreed to a one-year deal with the Bucs Wednesday. A two-time Pro Bowl tight end during a decade with the Vikings, he caught only 26 passes and one touchdown for the Giants last season. But he is also a classic Y who will provide a big target with good hands for quarterback Tom Brady. Eventually, it’s expected the job will become Otton’s. The grandson of Washington’s all-time winningest high school football coach whose dad coaches Tumwater High School, Otton should have no trouble making up for the time he lost in the offseason. He was a teammate of Bucs outside linebacker Joe Tryon-Shoyinka, and those battles will be renewed in training camp. Of course, the most tenured member of the Bucs’ tight end room is Cameron Brate, who is more known for his pass-catching than run-blocking. He is joined by Codey McElory and JJ Howland, an undrafted free agent from Yale. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.