TAMPA — The game is quicker than Kiley Williams remembers, the players faster and stronger. The 32-year-old sometimes arrives at practice “flustered” after balancing her work as a personal trainer and health coach with raising her two children. When she walks into the locker room to suit up for Tampa Bay United in the USL W League, though, Williams ages backwards. “I’m in my early 20s,” she said of her “alter ego.” “Let’s do this.” Williams, who played her first competitive soccer since her college days last summer, is one of the leading scorers on a team primarily for elite college athletes. (Think Cape Cod League, but for women’s soccer.) It’s not lost on Williams that she was “graduating (from) high school” when Sonoma Kasica — Tampa Bay United’s youngest player to feature in the league this season — was born. Kasica turned 16 last Thursday. Williams said many of her teammates are shocked by her age, telling her they can’t believe her athleticism and ability after having kids. Williams takes the compliments, to a point. “Yeah, being in your 30s is not a death sentence,” said Williams, laughing. A call-up Williams and team captain Madison Cox (Cambridge Christian) became good friends playing in a local co-ed league. After Cox, 26, told her last year that Tampa Bay United was fielding a team in the nation’s top amateur league, Williams reached out to club administrator Alex Delgado. “It was me wanting almost that final shot that I felt like I didn’t take for myself when I was younger,” Williams said. Williams played her college soccer at Francis Marion University before transferring to San Francisco State, playing in the old Pro-Am W League ahead of her senior season. Just as she was leaving school, however, the Women’s Professional Soccer league canceled its season and eventually folded in 2012. If she wanted a pro career, Williams would need to go to Europe. Instead, she chose to move to Florida with her now-husband, Kyle Clinton, who played for the Rowdies from 2013-14. Ahead of this summer, with the club now joining the W League, Williams asked Delgado if she could return as a coach. “Wait, are you hanging up your boots?” Delgado said. Williams admitted she hadn’t even considered it. “Yeah, just be a player for us.” A new era Williams said she feels a touch slower than the “younger girls,” but she’s currently top 5 on the team in minutes (536) played. Cox is first with 675 minutes in nine games. Her main partner at center back, Kelly Hastings, is a rising junior at UNC Charlotte. Hastings said this summer has primed her for a larger leadership role with the 49ers this fall. “It gives me an idea of how to treat the younger underclassmen that are coming in at my school,” Hastings said. ... “Just like how Madison would treat our younger backline.” Cox admitted the age gap is apparent when younger players are in control of the locker room music, but she and Williams both enjoy how they are respected as vets without being treated as ancient. “You would never know that we weren’t together all the time,” Williams said of the squad. “Everyone is very comfortable with one another.” Hastings played on United’s summer team last year to stay in shape, but she said the W League attracts more athletes with pro aspirations. “I think it’s a good way to see if this is the right fit for you,” she said. “Because I feel like at such a young age, you need to know what it takes to be at such a high level.” Hastings grew up on the other side of the state in Weston, where she played periodically under United head coach Tricia Taliaferro. She decided to follow the “best coach” she’s ever had for summer ball. Taliaferro, a longtime youth national team coach, led the U.S. to victory in the inaugural Women’s Para World Cup in Spain. She said the W League was a “mandatory” development for college players to keep up with their European counterparts embarking on professional careers. “I think it’s just mainly putting players on the radar,” Taliaferro said, “and it’s challenging them in an environment that is respected.” A last dance Tampa Bay United played its final game of the regular season last Friday, falling 1-0 to FC Miami City at the Tournament Sportsplex of Tampa Bay to end United’s hopes of making the playoffs. After almost a decade away, Williams dressed for a big game once again. Unlike her college days, 5-year-old Zinny (after Zinedine Zidane) and 2-year-old Winnie (middle name Thierry, as in Thierry Henry) cheered on their mom from the sideline. Williams said this season is likely her last competitively. Even so, she played knowing it wasn’t “life or death.” “If I could go back and tell myself that,” she said, “I absolutely would.”