ST. PETERSBURG — The breaks seemed to be going against the Rays on Tuesday. In the fifth inning alone, Corey Kluber went from having a no-hitter to a two-run deficit after two bloop hits, Boston’s first RBI bunt in seven years and a fly ball that fell between outfielders Randy Arozarena and Brett Phillips. Then their fortunes changed, and so did the outcome of the game, as the Rays rallied for a 3-2 win. All they needed was a wilder sequence in the sixth inning. Harold Ramirez hustled for an infield single, Francisco Mejia delivered a two-out pinch-hit RBI single, and Taylor Walls hit a ball that struck reliver Matt Strahm on the left wrist and led to two run-scoring throwing errors. “We did a nice job of not getting down, because it was a frustrating two runs that they scored,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “And I’m sure they’re on the flip side saying similar things; it was a frustrating two that we scored.” The win improved the Rays to 47-40, moved them past the Red Sox back into second place in the American League East and atop the wild-card field. Corey Kluber, pitching the day before he reaches the milestone of 10 years in the majors, gave the Rays six solid innings, even more impressive since he was facing the Sox for the second time in seven days. He retired the first nine (five on strikeouts) and didn’t allow a hit until one out in fifth, when Alex Verdugo hit the first of the two bloop singles. Rookie Jeter Downs, coming off the bench once Trevor Story left after being hit on the right hand by a pitch to make the count 3-2, had the other. Then came a safety squeeze by Franchy Cordero, Boston’s first RBI bunt since 2015, and the Bobby Dalbec fly ball that Arozarena ran toward and Phillips slid for. Cash said the team would “like to think that we’re going to catch that more times than not.” Most importantly, Kluber kept the Sox to the two runs. “After the couple runs,” he said, “we’re really just trying to get back into the dugout with no more damage so that we can give the offense a chance to go and score some runs.” They did, and they did. But it was hardly routine. With Ramirez (who hustled for a leadoff infield single) and Isaac Paredes (who walked) aboard, Mejia, pinch-hitting for Ji-Man Choi against the lefty Strahm, singled up the middle to make it 2-1. Then came the weird part. Walls hit a ball at 98 mph that struck Strahm on the left wrist. He scrambled, in pain, for the ball, but threw wildly past first, allowing Paredes to score. He left the game with at least a bruise, pending further evaluation. “It did seem like, I think, Strahm was trying to do a lot, and probably not in the best headspace because he was in a lot of pain,”  Cash said. Cordero chased down the ball and threw home, but errantly. As the ball bounced past the plate, third-base coach Rodney Linares alertly sent Mejia home. Shackled for five innings by Chris Sale in his rehab-delayed season debut, the Rays then led 3-2. “We know how baseball is, we know that crazy things can happen,” Paredes said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “You always know that against a team like this you’ve got to take advantage of a situation or a play like that.” Added Mejia, via Navarro: “Once I saw him get hit and it ricocheted off the pitcher, I knew that anything can happen off the bounce. So I just kept my eye on Linares and he helped me make the decision.” Having already contributed with his bat and baserunning, Mejia made another big play in the seventh inning when the Red Sox had two on and none out versus Jalen Beeks. Noting that Verdugo earlier was slow getting back to third, and getting a sign from the dugout to try it if the situation presented, Mejia teamed with Paredes to pick off Verdugo, reducing the threat. “I don’t know if many other catchers can do that,” Walls said. “I felt like I didn’t even have time to see the ball get from home to third. That thing was a missile. That was a huge play.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.