TORONTO — Coming off Saturday’s sweep of a day/night doubleheader, the Rays will have rookie Shane Baz on the mound today as they seek to win the five-games-in-four-days series from the Blue Jays. Baz threw a major-league most 95 pitches in his last start Tuesday, but said he felt good in his Friday bullpen session and doesn’t think his workload will be limited. In what has been an ongoing series of moves this weekend, the Rays optioned reliever Ralph Garza Jr. back to Triple-A Durham and added right-hander Cristofer Ogando, a 28-year-old who has been in their minor-league system since 2019 and is pitching this year at Durham. Ogando is making his first appearance in the majors, having spent nearly five years out of pro ball before being signed by Arizona in 2018. “I’m very happy, thank God‚’’ he said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “And thank God for the opportunity that this team has given me.’' The Jays are starting right-hander Ross Stripling. Also: • Jeffrey Springs will rejoin the Rays and start Tuesday in Boston; he stayed home from Toronto to deal with a family medical emergency. Monday’s starter is not yet announced; it could be a call-up or a bullpen day arrangement. • Dusten Knight was optioned back to Triple-A after Saturday’s second game so starter Drew Rasmussen could be formally added to the 26-man roster; he was activated Saturday as the 27th man for the doubleheader. • The Blue Jays announced the passing of first base coach Mark Budzinski’s eldest daughter, Julia. Rays manager Kevin Cash opened his pre-game media session addressing the loss: “First and foremost just thinking about Mark Budzinski, his family, their thoughts, tragic loss, and obviously the Blue Jays’ players and staff. I know yesterday was a rough day; today is a rough day. So we’re heartbroken as well with the Rays.’’ Here is the Rays lineup, coming off their big offensive day with 17 runs and 27 hits: And for the Blue Jays: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.