Congress recently passed bipartisan gun reform legislation for the first time in more than a decade, and while many have praised its passage as a step in the right direction, others have argued that it doesn’t go far enough to curb America’s growing epidemic of gun violence. The right path forward is still being debated, and many hold very strong opinions. With that in mind, we asked a representative sample of 600 Floridians how they felt about the new law and whether or not they would support additional measures to reduce gun violence. The results showed sweeping support for additional reforms on both sides of the aisle. The survey — fielded between July 2 and 10 — revealed broad bipartisan support both for the new law as well as for more aggressive reforms. A majority (60%) said that they support the new law, and most were supportive of even more extensive action. With the midterm election fast approaching, 35% reported that gun violence and crime would have a significant impact on how they vote in November, indicating that the next few months will be critical for both parties politically as well. Floridians conveyed high levels of support for specific provisions included in recent legislation. For example, when asked whether individuals convicted of domestic abuse — regardless of marital status — should be prohibited from purchasing a firearm, 86% said yes. That number was even higher (88%) when asked if they supported states enacting “red flag” laws that would remove firearms from individuals deemed by a judge to be dangerous to themselves or others. Such reforms were a compromise for both parties in Congress, with Democrats agreeing to a law that was not quite as restrictive as they hoped for and Republicans conceding ground on an issue to which they’ve held tightly for decades. On top of supporting the recent legislation, Floridians on both sides of the aisle support a broad range of restrictions that would go even further than the new law. When asked about additional reforms, majorities in both parties supported all of the following: · Requiring universal background checks for all firearm purchases (92.4%); · Requiring a license to purchase guns classified as “assault weapons” (85.7%); · Prohibiting those under 21 years of age from purchasing guns classified as “assault weapons” (88.7%); · Requiring mandatory waiting periods for all firearm purchases (85.7%); · Preventing those under the age of 21 from purchasing any semi-automatic firearm (84.5%). Where such reforms are typically split down party lines, there were only small differences in support from those who identify with each party. Republican support for these measures never fell below 75%, and went as high as 91% for some, indicating very broad support from individuals whose party has strongly opposed such restrictions in the past. With November midterms that include both a gubernatorial and a Senate race on the line, these results indicate a path forward not often considered by Republican elected officials. Floridians have a strong desire for even more action on gun reform, and they will be watching to see what their elected officials do to combat gun violence in our state in the coming months. The economy and inflation remain the top issue in the mind of Floridians. When asked to identify the three issues that would most significantly impact their votes this fall, 48% said “inflation” and 47% said “the economy.” But gun violence/crime was identified as the third most important priority (35%) — higher than other widely debated topics such as abortion and other social issues. Heading into an election season with such high bipartisan support for sensible gun reforms, leaders in Tallahassee have a rare opportunity to pass significant reforms that will satisfy voters on both sides of the aisle. Bethany Bowra is a doctoral candidate at Florida International University. Stephen Neely is an associate professor at USF’s School of Public Affairs.