KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Manager Kevin Cash was talking a couple of hours before his Rays resumed post-All-Star break play about the “many different ways” they had won games this season. They added a new and novel one Friday night in beating the Royals 7-3, taking advantage of Royals starter Brad Keller trying to pitch with gauze shoved up his left nostril to stem flowing blood and Yandy Diaz hitting a bases-loaded double that broke the game open. The win carried the Rays’ recent hot streak beyond the four-day break, as they won for the seventh time in their past eight games and 12th in their past 17, improving to a season-high-matching 11 games over .500 at 52-41. They hold the top wild-card spot in the American League and have a four-game lead over Cleveland to be in the six-team playoff field. “Nice to see us kind of pick up where we left off offensively,’' manager Kevin Cash said. The Rays had just taken a 2-1 lead in the fourth inning and had two runners on base with one out and No. 9 hitter Brett Phillips at the plate with a 3-1 count when Keller needed to be attended to on the mound. After several minutes of work by a Royals athletic trainer and conversations with manager Mike Matheny, Keller stayed in the game with the blood flow blocked. “During the at-bat I kept seeing him messing with his nose,’' Phillips said. “Then after the third ball, it just started coming out. In a situation like that, you’ve got to call timeout and take the time. ... But to see him stay in with some gauze in his nose, it’s a grinder right there. I respect it.’' Grinding, yes. Pitching well, no. Keller threw one pitch to walk Phillips and load the bases. “I’m glad he threw me a ball because, I’m not going to lie, my eyes were looking at his nose,’' Phillips said. “I get to first and (Kansas City’s Nick Pratto) was like, ‘I saw his gauze sticking out from first base, I can’t imagine being at the plate.’ But, again, you’ve got to do what you’ve got to do in that situation.’’ Diaz took a ball, then lashed a double to left, extending his own hot streak. Phillips, picking up the early send decision by third-base coach Rodney Linares, raced all the way around from first to score. Diaz, like Phillips, said he couldn’t recall batting previously against a pitcher with gauze in his nose. “I got a little scared when I saw him with it on there,’' Diaz said via team interpreter Manny Navarro. Keller told Kansas City media he wasn’t sure what happened. “Just some random bloody nose,” he said. “I don’t know. I haven’t had a bloody nose in like five years. I threw one pitch, I checked my nose and was like, ‘I shouldn’t be sniffling.’ Blood was coming out, so I called them out there. “That was the most bizarre thing that I think I could say ever happened to me on the mound,” he added. Also, very uncomfortable. “It was really weird,’' he said. “I couldn’t breathe. I wouldn’t recommend it for anyone.” The rest of the night went pretty well for the Rays. Phillips, who has been struggling mightily offensively, reached base three times (two walks, one single) for the first time in two months. Eight of the nine starters had hits or walks. Francisco Mejia drove in two, and Randy Arozarena and Brandon Lowe one each. Pitching in oppressive heat, with the temperature for the 7:11 p.m. local time first pitch at 95 degrees, Drew Rasmussen did well to work five innings for the win. He had baserunners on in each inning but allowed just one run, seven hits and a walk, throwing 94 pitches to get the 15 outs. “It was warm,’' he said. “I tried my hardest to not think about it and just go out and do my job.’' There were some inconveniences: He would bring his fingers to his mouth for more moisture and realized, “I had no dry place to wipe my hand off.’' Also, he changed clothes several times, using two undershirts, three jerseys and two pairs of pants. “It was wild today,’' he said. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.