TREASURE ISLAND — In his 16 years at the helm of the light blue hotel, Clyde Smith has steered business through tropical storms, red tide, an oil spill and now a pandemic. Walking the grounds of the Bilmar Beach Resort, tucked along the sands of Treasure Island, he considers his current challenge: Fostering a staff environment ready to meet the demands of a nation’s pent-up desire to travel amid lingering staff shortages. “We want to be an employer of choice,” said Smith, who began working in the hotel industry as a pot washer aged 14 and is now the Bilmar’s general manager. “These can be tough jobs, and I want my team to feel appreciated.” The tourism promotion agencies for both Hillsborough and Pinellas counties reported record-setting tourist tax collections this spring. The region’s airports are welcoming more passengers than ever before. But the boom is coming at a time when the hospitality industry nationwide, long plagued by low wages and high turnover rates, is reckoning with how to retain employees and attract new talent. Hotels across the country are struggling to find staff. Restaurants, too. And airlines are dealing with shortages of their own, prompting delays and cancellations. In an effort to draw new staff Smith has beefed up a referral program: current employees receive $100 if they refer someone who gets a job. If the new hire stays for more than 90 days, the referrer gets another $250. Smith said one of his kitchen employees has made $2,000 from the program in the past year. A win for everyone, Smith said. “We really needed the staff.” Upstairs, Brandon Harris is pushing a cart of clean linens room to room, through the midday heat. The 27-year-old is a houseman, tasked with maintaining the overall cleanliness of the hotel and one of the roles Smith said is hardest to fill. Harris understands why. Last year he left, exhausted. There had been churn among staff, and constantly training new people left him feeling burnout. But eight months ago he returned, drawn back by a wage increase and his long-time colleagues. “There’s room for me to grow here,” he said. He wants a career, not a job. Despite stinging inflation, visitors continue to fill local tourist tax development coffers to historic levels. From December through May, tourism spending on Hillsborough County hotels brought in more than $600 million in revenue, a 68% increase over the same time period the year before and a 37% increase over pre-pandemic 2019 performance, according to data from Visit Tampa Bay, the county’s tourism agency. “The future looks really bright as far as the numbers,” Visit Tampa Bay CEO Santiago Corrada said, adding that the state government’s decision to remain mostly restriction-free during the pandemic gave the Tampa Bay tourism industry a leg up over competitors. Now, as pandemic restrictions ease across the globe, Corrada said the region must continue to invest its infrastructure, services and staffers if Tampa Bay is to remain competitive. “Locally, my biggest concern is a shortage of supply,” Corrada said, adding that the county added more hotel rooms during the pandemic than during any other part of its history. “But it has really slowed down.” Throughout the pandemic, service workers have hustled to feed, shelter and entertain others, all while juggling their own health and economic stability. The hospitality industry is known to be volatile, home to grinding hours, high-pressure environments and unpredictable scheduling. Issues like harassment and wage theft abound, and there can be little in the way of formal job benefits such as health care, vacation time or a livable wage. Florida’s minimum salary for tipped employees, like servers and bartenders, is $6.98 per hour. They often still earn more than back-of-house workers, like cooks and dishwashers, who might get paid more per hour, but typically don’t share in tips. A recent survey from the American Hotel and Lodging Association found 97% of its members say they’ve reported being understaffed. And 49% have said they were severely understaffed. Experts said many factors are impeding hiring, including reports of unruly customers, higher-paying jobs outside the industry and concerns around the coronavirus. Phil Shepherd, a 28-year-old Tampa resident and long-time restaurant worker says he recently left his job after his request for a raise to keep up with inflation was denied. “It’s tough finding a job in this industry that pays well and doesn’t put too much stress on your body and mind,” he said. He decided to give DoorDash a go, after seeing friends have luck with the food delivery service. “I’ve consistently made more money doing that than working in the restaurant,” he said. In St. Petersburg, The Galley owner Pete Boland began offering $200 signing bonus checks last year at his nautical-themed tavern. But things have started to change in recent months, he said. He is no longer offering signing bonuses. This week he posted a bartending position and got about 20 applications, whereas this time last year he received only a handful. “The demand for employees is still there, but it is not the crisis situation that it was last year,” said Danette Lynch, regional director of the Florida Restaurant & Lodging Association. Last spring, a Tampa McDonald’s franchise made national news when the owners announced that applicants who showed up for an interview would receive $50, regardless of whether they took the job. Some business are still struggling. In May, the Upper Tampa Bay Chamber of Commerce hosted a job fair, bringing together over 50 businesses from a range of industries. Doug Bevis, the organization’s director of business and government affairs, said the fair attracted a fifth of the number of applicants compared to last year’s fair. “I wonder if people have turned their side hustles into more of a permanent hustle,” he said, noting the appeal of more remote-friendly work. But for many essential jobs in the hospitality industry, there is no remote option. “Hiring is a constant now,” said Michele Routh, public relations director at St. Pete–Clearwater International Airport. Traffic assistants and facilities positions have proved particularly hard to fill, she added. June of this year marked the busiest June in the airport’s history, with more than a quarter million passengers passing through. As people return to the sky in record numbers, airport service workers often feel overlooked and underpaid. “A little recognition of the role we play in keeping Americans moving would be nice,” said Frank Bohan a 65-year old wheelchair attendant at Tampa International Airport. He makes $10 an hour plus tips. “We have a nightmare scenario at our airports, with record cancellations and delays, and the airlines are blaming a worker shortage,” said Helene O’Brien, Florida director for Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, the chapter that represents 175,000 service workers around the country. “Well, here’s an idea. Make these jobs more attractive so people want to work at the airport.” The union is advocating for the Good Jobs for Good Airports Act, introduced in Congress last month, which would requires airports, airport vendors and airline contractors to pay their service workers at least $15 an hour with benefits, in order to access the billions of dollars the federal government provides to airports each year. Back at Treasure Island’s Bilmar Beach Resort, Clyde Smith is looking out at the pool deck, recalling this time last year. He had to turn customers away because there weren’t enough staff to cook and clean. Then he remembers the spring before, when the 166-room hotel closed for seven weeks and the only guests by the pool were seagulls. Today there are people outstretched on sun loungers and others frolicking in the water as the sun climbs ever-higher in the sky. This is not peak season. It’s July in Florida, after all. But Smith likes what he sees. “We’re in a great spot,” he said. “For now.”