BOSTON — The Rays continue their holiday tour today with a Fourth of July matinee against the Red Sox, first pitch at 1:35. Prior to the game, the Rays continued their roster shuffling: Left-hander Josh Fleming, sporting short hair and a trimmed beard, was called up from Triple-A Durham and is likely to work multiple innings today behind opener Jalen Beeks; Relievers Brooks Raley and Ryan Thompson were reinstated from the restricted list, where they spent the last four days as they are unvaccinated and were not able to make the trip to Toronto; Reliever Javy Guerra and Phoenix Sanders, who were called up to replace Raley and Thompson, were returned to Triple-A. Sanders, however, will remain with the Rays on the taxi squad; Reliever Cristofer Ogando, who made his big-league debut on Sunday at age 28, was optioned to Durham. Reliever JP Feyereisen, out since June 3 with a bone bruise in his shoulder, was transferred from the 10- to the 60-day injured list to make room on the 40-man roster for Ogando. That will delay Feyereisen’s return until at least Aug. 2. Also Luis Patino is here so head atheltic trainer Joe Benge and staff can take a look at the blister on his right middle finger that forced him out of his most recent rehab start for Durham on Saturday after only three innings. Manager Kevin Cash said how the blister responds to treatment will determine the next step for Patino, out since early April with an oblique strain. Beeks and Boston’s Austin Davis will be openers today as both teams will go heavy into their bullpens. The Rays arrive in Boston having won three straight against the Blue Jays, scoring 24 runs and rapping 41 hits in doing so. Here is the Rays lineup: And for the Red Sox, with Xander Bogaerts, who received stitches on Sunday after being spiked on the leg, not playing and ex-Rays Christian Arroyo at shortstop: Lineups when available. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.