TAMPA — A Wimauma family clung to each other on the tarmac at Tampa International Airport Tuesday afternoon. For more than three weeks, the family had been waiting for this moment — the day that 12-year-old Jasmin Cervantes-Garcia finally would come home. In late June, Jasmin was on vacation in the Mexican city of León with her mother, father and grandparents. They were on their way to Texas for a family celebration when their pickup truck and a passenger bus collided, according to Jasmin’s brother, 26-year-old Jose Cervantes. Speaking at the airport Tuesday, he said Jasmin was the only person in the pickup truck to survive the crash that killed her parents, J and Maria Cervantes, and her grandparents, Enrique and Alicia Cervantes. She had been in critical condition in Mexico since that time. Jose Cervantes described his father as hardworking — continually providing for his family. He described his mother as loving, displaying a lot of patience as she raised Jasmin and her four brothers. “When we first heard the news ... the only thing keeping me sane and going was knowing that my sister still had a fighting chance,” he said. Those who waited on the tarmac Tuesday were a mix of her brothers, cousins and other family members. For weeks, the family had anxiously anticipated Jasmin’s return. The 12-year-old girl arrived at Tampa International Airport on a small black plane owned by Jet ICU, a Tampa-based air ambulance company, around 6 p.m. She was taken off the plane in a stretcher and transported to Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital in St. Petersburg. Cindy Garcia spoke to the media after the ambulance carrying her niece left the airport. Jasmin’s condition has not changed much since the crash, Cindy Garcia said. The girl is unable to speak, but she has opened her eyes. Once Jasmin’s doctors considered her stable enough to be moved, the family jumped on the opportunity to bring her home. Cindy Garcia said Jasmin recognized her when she arrived at the hospital in Mexico on Sunday. She told Jasmin to blink once if she recognized her aunt, and she did. “Jasmin, you know I’m here for you,” Cindy Garcia said, describing her first time seeing her niece. “Can you squeeze my hand? She squeezed it.” Doctors at John’s Hopkins All Children’s Hospital will start from scratch when it comes to determining Jasmin’s course of treatment going forward, Cindy Garcia said. Tuesday marks a new chapter in Jasmin’s recovery, she said. Cindy Garcia cried tears of happiness at the sight of her family as she got off the plane, she said. “She is a survivor for a reason, and we’re strong for her. It hurts, but we’re strong for her,” Cindy Garcia said. For much of Jasmin’s family, Tuesday was the first time they’d seen their 12-year-old relative in weeks. When her family had first been told of the crash, they rushed to Mexico, Jose Cervantes said. The family was allowed to see her one by one the day they arrived; however, it was the last time they were able to be with her. Cindy Garcia created a GoFundMe account that has raised over $34,000 as of Tuesday night to help with the 12-year-old’s medical expenses. Cindy, along with Jasmin’s brothers, Antonio and Jose Cervantes, all thanked the community for rallying behind their family and Jasmin. The family is planning fundraising events for Friday and Saturday to continue to raise money for Jasmin’s medical expenses — one in Bartow and the other in Wimauma. Jose Cervantes described Jasmin as energetic and bubbly. She loves sports — especially volleyball, he said. And she loves to be on TikTok. “This is only the beginning of her treatment and care,” Cindy Garcia said. “Bringing her over from Mexico was again another expense that, because of the community coming together and your donations, we’re able to get that as well.”