Family values GOP lawmaker voted against same-sex marriage, then went to gay son’s wedding | July 27 It’s often the case that someone who was against same-sex unions will change their position based on personal connections. A close association with someone who is gay, be it friend, associate or family member broadens traditional definitions of family values. There are numerous examples, the family of former Vice President Dick Cheney being a notable example. One would think Rep. Glenn Thompson, R-Pa., would be one of this group given his declared support for his gay son and partner at their same-sex marriage. Apparently, this close family association is not powerful enough to sway a highly partisan vote, for when he got back to his day job as a member of the House of Representatives, he voted against legislation guaranteeing same-sex marriages nationally. What was he thinking? There might be a political argument that the Democrats sponsored the legislation as a political ploy before the midterms. Even so, if he supports his son’s marriage as he says he does, isn’t family support a reasonable justification to vote yes? Apparently, Republican partisanship is more important than family values, and that is very sad. Jon Crawfurd, Gulfport Woke or asleep? Governor plans to fight ‘woke ideology’ of PayPal and other financial services | July 28 I shall continue to point out that the opposite of being “woke” is being ”asleep.” Those Proud Boys just must get their PayPal online payments, yet women won’t even be able to get a contraceptive if the men-at-the-helm have their way and to think otherwise is being “woke”? They can control “us” in the most personal way possible yet PayPal can’t control the so-called “Proud” Boys mode of financial payment? We don’t have time to sleep these days, women. We need to wake up. Vickie Weiss, Treasure Island Support our troops New Port Richey veteran fighting to get treatment for vets exposed to toxic burn pits | Nov. 23 My wife and I were appalled that a bill to help those veterans serving our nation during the Gulf War and Afghanistan, exposed to unknown chemicals, was used as a partisan tool for the upcoming elections. Never should our nation’s current and future veterans be ever used for someone’s or some party favor or elections. Veterans should always be held first for support. Taking pictures with them is not support. However, passing legislation that helps them in their time of need is “supporting our troops.” Andrew Linko, St. Petersburg