ST. PETERSBURG — Injuries and an often impotent offense have caused the Rays all kinds of problems over the last few weeks. Yandy Diaz is doing his part to hold things together — with a little help from some yellow tape. Diaz continued his torrid streak on Monday, rapping three hits (matching a season high), scoring three runs and driving in three as the Rays rallied after blowing a four-run lead for a 10-5 win over the Red Sox. Diaz has hits in 14 of his last 15 games — 27 total, including 11 doubles — with a .500 average to show for it and 10 multi-hit games in that stretch. In 64 plate appearances, he has reached base 37 times, with nine walks and a hit by pitch. “He’s on a really impressive run, and we are some kind of appreciative of what he’s doing for us, picking us up,” manager Kevin Cash said. “He’s one of the few veterans that have some reps and the experience and he’s as hot as I can recall. Just getting big hit after big hit, having great at-bats, running the bases well, scoring. Just a lot of things he’s doing for us.” Diaz said he is just doing what he can to help, acknowledging that as one of the few veterans in the lineup there is a responsibility to step up, and he is appreciative the balls he is hitting hard are dropping. But he insisted, with a smile, that the key is the Kinesio tape — a commonly available product designed to reduce pain and inflammation — that has been applied daily to his left shoulder by athletic trainer/acupuncturist Shin Fukuda since the hot steak started in late June. “The secret is the tape that’s been put on my shoulder and giving me some energy,” said Diaz, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. The Rays welcomed the win over their division rival, especially coming off a miserable weekend in Cincinnati, where they were swept by the last-place Reds and lost two key players, Wander Franco and Kevin Kiermaier, for extended periods due to injuries. They improved to 46-40 and moved to within a half game of the Sox for second place in the division and the top wild-card spot. There were other hands in the win. Centerfielder Brett Phillips, who later singled to snap an 0-for-28 skid, made a spectacular running and diving catch in the second inning that changed the momentum. “Unbelievable,” Cash said. Reliever Luke Bard, called up Monday morning, pitched three solid innings for his first win since 2019 after Josh Fleming left with right oblique tightness that likely will land him on the injured list. “(Bard) was awesome for us, really, really picked us up,” Cash said. Harold Ramirez, extending his remarkable pinch-hitting record to 8-for-16, had two run-scoring hits; rookies Josh Lowe and Jonathan Aranda each had one as the Rays got to double-digit runs for the fourth time this season (the second with no homers), and had 14 hits. Diaz has been in the middle of just about everything they have done over the last few weeks, combining the plate discipline that allows him to walk often and strike out rarely with hitting the ball squarely. “He’s actually hitting the ball really hard right now,” Cash said. “He’s always hit the ball hard, but he’s really stringing it together day after day, night after night.” Said Ramirez: ‘It’s unbelievable.He just hits the barrel .. Lots of doubles, base hits, RBI, so that’s what we need.” As for the tape? “Let’s tape a couple other guys up then,” Cash said. Diaz — whose hair is also dyed yellow — is all for sharing his secret: “Hopefully we can put it on everyone so we win.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.