ST. PETERSBURG — Let’s be honest with ourselves: The lineup the Rays put on the field against the Red Sox on Monday night at the Trop is not capable of winning 90 games over the course of a season. It’s probably not even close. Four of the nine starters were hitting below .200, and a fifth had four big-league at-bats to his name. The two pitchers who combined to blow an early four-run lead were in Triple-A just a couple days ago. And yet, on this night, it did not matter. The Rays beat the Red Sox. Again. They kept pace in the wild card standings. Again. They renewed your hope. Again. So, ultimately, the question is this: Can a Duck-Taped version of the Rays roster impersonate a contending team long enough to keep Tampa Bay’s postseason hopes alive? That’s the mission. That’s the aspiration. And, believe me, it’s a big ask right now. The Rays are beat up and, in some ways, unrecognizable. If you ask players where they were on opening day, more than one-third of the current roster would tell you they were somewhere other than Tropicana Field. Kevin Kiermaier and Mike Zunino could be lost for the season. Wander Franco is out for at least one month, maybe two, with a broken hand. Brandon Lowe has been laid up since mid-May and Manuel Margot’s knee will probably keep him sidelined another two months. There is not a lineup in the majors that could lose five everyday players without steering into the ditch on the way to October. Accordingly, the Rays are 18-21 since the end of May and have gone from 4.5 games behind the Yankees to 15 games out of first place. They have been mediocre for a good chunk of the season and seem unlikely to win a third consecutive American League East title. So why, on nights such as this, do they still seem so endearing? Because, for every boneheaded move on the bases, they still play the game with a childlike exuberance. For every miscue in the field, there is a — Holy crap! — defensive gem such as Brett Phillips’ dive in centerfield in the second inning Monday night. For every inexplicable sweep at the hands of the last-place Reds, there is the 10-5 record against wild-card rivals Boston and Toronto. Some nights, they look like they’re barely treading water and there are times when you think they have finally run out of breath. And then Jonathan Aranda arrives from Durham and singles in the first and second innings, giving him four hits in his first six major-league at-bats. Yu Chang, who is on his third team in the last six weeks, got an RBI single in the eighth for his third hit in his first eight at-bats with the Rays. Luke Bard, who is 31 and has a total of 11 innings in the big leagues in the last three years, was called up from Triple-A Monday morning, gave up the tying run in the fifth and then gutted out two more scoreless innings for his first MLB win since 2019. “We’re going to have to lean on these guys, we’re going to have to lean on some of our depth, we’re going to have lean on some of the guys we’ve acquired lately. That’s who we are right now,” manager Kevin Cash said. “Hopefully, they can continue to make the most of their opportunities. “Chang did some nice things in the cage today with (hitting coach Chat Mottola) and it’s nice to see an immediate result. Aranda has hit for two straight years now (in Triple-A) and it seems like he’s comfortable with his approach in the box.” This isn’t preferable, and it’s probably not sustainable. Not long-term, at least. The Rays need Isaac Paredes to continue blowing minds, and they’re going to need Josh Lowe to remain on his current upswing. They need Aranda and Chang to pitch in on occasion, and they need the Cubs to question why they ever let Harold Ramirez get away. None of these players was around when the Rays won 100 games last season, and you probably weren’t expecting any of them to be significant contributors in 2022. “As a veteran, you expect to help out all the younger guys,” said third baseman Yandy Diaz, through interpreter Manny Navarro. “But the young guys that we have, you know they’re actually really good, and really smart, and they play the game really well.” If these guys can keep the Rays close to the Red Sox and Blue Jays for a little while longer as Lowe, Franco, Margot and a bunch of relievers work their way back into the dugout, the Rays might still be standing when October rolls around. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.