Bethune’s rightful honor. Mary McLeod Bethune was a pioneering leader who is still doing in death what she did throughout her life — inspiring America and making Florida proud in the process. A South Carolina native, Bethune moved to Florida at the start of the 20th century and later founded what today is Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach. Her lifetime commitment to educating African-Americans and advancing civil rights led her to found the National Council of Negro Women, work with U.S. presidents on race relations and become part of a U.S. delegation that created the United Nations charter. That rich life and incredible legacy was honored this week as an 11-foot marble likeness of Bethune was unveiled in the U.S. Capitol. Her statue replaces that of a former Confederate general that represented Florida in the National Statuary Hall for nearly a century, and it marks the first time a state has honored a Black person in the Capitol collection. Special credit to U.S. Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., who signed legislation as governor placing the Bethune statue in Statuary Hall, and U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, D-Tampa, who worked for years to make it happen. Help young Jasmin. This community cannot help but ache for Jasmin Cervantes-Garcia, a 12-year-old from Wimauma who was seriously injured in a June car crash in Mexico that killed her parents and grandparents. Jasmin was on vacation in the Mexican city of León with her mother, father and grandparents, and on their way to Texas for a family celebration, their truck collided with a passenger bus. The crash killed her parents, J and Maria Cervantes, and her grandparents, Enrique and Alicia Cervantes, and left Jasmin in critical condition in Mexico. On Tuesday, she arrived at Tampa International Airport on a small black plane owned by Jet ICU, a Tampa-based air ambulance company. She was taken to Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital in St. Petersburg, where doctors will determine Jasmin’s care. Her brothers, cousins and other family members who waited on the tarmac Tuesday were elated that Jasmin is finally home. But her recovery’s just starting. And tragedy has orphaned her at an unusually cruel age. A GoFundMe account had raised over $43,000 by Thursday. That’s a great start. This is a young girl and neighbor in need who deserves this community’s generosity. Beach to ‘Burg. Mark your calendars for Oct. 21. That’s the official opening for Tampa Bay’s first bus rapid transit system, the SunRunner. The 16-stop line will shuttle passengers between downtown St. Petersburg and St. Pete Beach, 35 minutes each way — about a third faster than existing bus service. “Bus rapid transit” means a route that uses a dedicated lane, offering fewer stops and quicker boarding. Local officials, business leaders and transit advocates have championed the project for years, seeing it as a catalyst for modernizing bus service throughout the mass transit-starved region. The low-emission, hybrid electric buses will run every 15 minutes during the day on First Avenue North and South before turning onto Pasadena Avenue South and traveling down Gulf Boulevard. Evening service will run at 30 minute intervals. So check it out. Riding will be free for the first six months, and then $2.25 one way. Bay’s algae problem. Is more algae mucking up Tampa Bay? That was the focus of a Times’ story this week, as boat captains and environmental advocates say the algae mats seem worse than usual this year, in what could be a worrisome sign for the area’s ecosystem. The concern follows two crises last year — the massive release of polluted water from the old Piney Point fertilizer plant site and, later, a Red Tide algal bloom that killed tons of fish. Those troubles also exposed the gaps in research that have hindered experts and environmental officials from keeping better tabs on Tampa Bay. Algae blooms can choke seagrass beds, blocking sunlight the plants need to grow. Seagrasses are instrumental in cleaning the bay, and they serve as a habitat and food source for fish and manatees. That’s why having an historical snapshot of the bay’s health is so essential to managing threats to the region’s ecosystem. And it’s another reminder of why Gov. Ron DeSantis’ veto last month of a major marine science center at the University of South Florida’s St. Petersburg campus was such a wasted opportunity. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.