KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The Rays’ first move to replace the extremely productive and now-injured Harold Ramirez in their lineup is signing outfielder Roman Quinn. The 29-year-old switch-hitter has played parts of six seasons with the Phillies, including 23 games earlier this season, with a .223 career average and .643 OPS. Quinn most recently was with the Royals’ Triple-A Omaha team, playing seven games before opting out of his contract last week. The Rays see Quinn mostly as a right-handed-hitting option in centerfield, something they haven’t had since Manuel Margot was injured in June, to share time with lefties Josh Lowe and Brett Phillips. “We think he’s a really good defender, a really good baserunner, and hopefully it’s enough bat. You never know,” general manager Peter Bendix said. “But he is, I think, somebody that actually complements our group really well. … Against left-handed pitching, he kind of fits in really well.” In 2018, when he played in a career-high 50 games, Quinn hit .302 with an .884 OPS against lefties over 43 plate appearances. In 143 big-league plate appearances against lefties since, he has hit .178 with a .561 OPS. Ramirez, whose right thumb was broken when he was hit by a pitch Sunday, was placed on the 10-day injured list. The Rays hope he can return in four-five weeks. Reliever Cristofer Ogando, who made his lone big-league appearance July 3, was designated for assignment to make room for Quinn on the 40-man roster. Quinn’s defensive fit and right-handed bat apparently is what made him a better choice for a limited-duty role than recalling a prospect such as Vidal Brujan, the switch-hitting infielder/outfielder who was sent down July 7 after a rough showing, or lefty-hitting infielder Jonathan Aranda. Quinn’s 2021 season ended at Tropicana Field when he ruptured his left Achilles running home in the May 29 game. Quinn, who Bendix said is “somebody that we’ve liked for a while,” has bounced around this season after being dropped off the Phillies’ roster in November and electing for free agency. He signed with the Marlins in March and was released from their Triple-A team on April 5. He went back to the Phillies, played six games at Triple-A then got called up and stayed through the end of May, hitting .162 with a .414 OPS. He was designated for assignment and again elected for free agency. He signed with the Royals in mid-June and went to Triple-A. Pitching in: Rasmussen to start Friday Drew Rasmussen is set to pitch Friday’s post-break opener against the Royals. Jeffrey Springs is slated to come off the injured list (right lower-leg tightness) and start Sunday. He posted on Instagram that his 5½-month old son, Stetson, will be released Friday after three weeks in the hospital and that the infection in Stetson’s spinal fluid is gone. Luis Patino is likely to pitch Saturday, though perhaps behind an opener as the Rays didn’t announce a starter. They want to push veteran Corey Kluber, who started the July 17 pre-break finale, and Shane McClanahan, who thew 23 pitches in Tuesday’s All-Star Game, to the back end of the rotation. Miscellany The Rays see lefty Angel Perdomo, claimed Tuesday from the Brewers, as someone with good stuff and “strike-throwing concerns” they can help with. “If we can catch lightning in a bottle, that would be great,” Bendix said. … Right-hander Cooper Criswell, claimed Saturday from the Angels then designated for assignment to make room for Perdomo, cleared waivers and was outrighted to Durham. Also, reliever Dusten Knight, who was DFA’d Sunday to make room on the 40-man roster for Pete Fairbanks, cleared waivers and agreed to go back to Durham. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.