TAMPA — Nick Paul remembers the moment he felt a part of the Lightning. His head was still swirling, trying to digest a March trade from Ottawa to Tampa Bay, where he had to adjust to a new team in the middle of a push to the postseason. About two weeks into his time here, while the team was on an up-and-back road trip to Washington, he went to dinner with a group of his new teammates, including many of the veteran leadership group. “There’s like eight of us and they just made me feel so comfortable,” Paul said Friday after re-signing with the Lightning for the next seven years. “I just started telling jokes. I wouldn’t say (I was) quiet, but just kind of feeling my way around. Then I started getting my personality going a little bit and it just made me feel really at home.” “It was like I was going for dinner with everyone for the last two years,” he added. “There was no judgment. There was no feeling of not fitting in. It was just a good connection. They were telling jokes. I was telling jokes. It just felt like family, like I’ve known them forever.” As the Lightning try to keep their group together while maneuvering through their salary-cap constraints, comfort might be the team’s best negotiating tool. Before Paul was traded to the Lightning, he reportedly declined a four-year, $10-million deal from the Senators. At that point, Paul, who turned 27 right around the trade deadline, figured he’d bet on himself and test free agency after the season. After being dealt to the Lightning, Paul did everything possible to raise his stock under the playoff spotlight, showing versatility and skill even beyond what the Lightning expected. “I had never played in the playoffs before,” Paul said. “I’m on a new team. I want to show that I’m good, but the calmness and trust and confidence that they have in you just kind of eases your nerves a little bit and you get back to playing hockey. It’s just something that I’ve never felt before and it was awesome.” Paul likely could have received more than the $3.15 million annual average value he got from the Lightning. Compare that to the six-year, $29.4 million deal ($4.9 million AAV) that former Lightning wing Blake Coleman received from with Calgary last offseason. The Lightning’s ability to make new players — whether they are free-agent signings or trade acquisitions — feel at home is nothing new, and it’s a part of their winning culture. They preach that they’re a family, the bond between the players makes them push harder for each other when things get tough in the postseason. But it also gives general manager Julien BriseBois unique negotiating power, and it should help in his attempts to retain the team’s two remaining free agents — wing Ondrej Palat and defenseman Jan Rutta. “It’s a busy time of the year,” BriseBois said Tuesday. “It’s a challenging time of year. It’s a somewhat exhilarating time of the year and hopefully we can catch some breaks here and get some good contracts signed.” Palat has been a piece of the Lightning’s core group since 2013-14 and has been to four Stanley Cup finals. Lightning coach Jon Cooper is the only coach he has had in the professional ranks dating to the AHL. Cooper knows better than anyone how to place Palat in situations to succeed. Palat been one of the team’s top playoff performers. He scored 11 goals this postseason and 27 over the past three playoff runs. His 12 game-winning goals are third most among active players. But Palat would be the first to say that his success is a by-product of playing on lines alongside great players like Nikita Kucherov, Steven Stamkos and Brayden Point. How can Palat believe that the grass is greener elsewhere? As for Rutta, he is coming off his most productive season since his rookie outing four years ago while finding his niche playing yin to Victor Hedman’s yang. He is a dependable right-shot defenseman who can cover the ice while Hedman freestyles in the offensive zone. Time will tell whether the Lightning will be able to keep those players — and BriseBois likely will have to unload a veteran player or acquire a inactive player contract like Brent Seabrook’s, which allows the team to go $6.875 million over the cap for the next two years through long-term injured reserve. It won’t be easy, but at least the Lightning clearly have sentiment on their side. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.