ARLINGTON, Texas — Joey Wendle made it look so easy. For most of his four seasons with the Rays, Wendle regularly bounced around the infield, playing third base, shortstop and second with relatively equal skill, grace and aplomb. Now Taylor Walls has that job, and while considered a smoother defensive player, he has shown there are challenges that come with stepping into that role. “It’s easy to take for granted,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “(Walls) is a guy that’s played short probably since the time he was 10 years old. We’re asking him to play third and second. He’s got a couple reps in the minor leagues at the different spots. But this is a different game up here.” Walls has had his moments. There have been costly mistakes that are reflected in his seven errors, third-most in the majors. And there have been some dazzling plays, such as one Sunday at third base and an even better one after shifting to second. Walls said the varied assignments — specifically the changes in positioning and throws — have made for an ongoing education, one he is undertaking while competing for playing time on a contending team at the big-league level. He’s also trying to improve his offensive contributions, with a .149 average. “It’s difficult,” said Walls, 25. “The more you do it, the better you become at it. Joey’s been doing it for a while now, and that’s why he’s a master at it. “But for not just me. Take (teammate Vidal Brujan), who only played second. Now he’s trying to play third and short (along with all three outfield positions). So it’s like that for any guy that’s really used to their whole life playing one position and they go start playing multiple positions. There’s multiple different things that seem like it’s the same thing but are completely different.” With Wander Franco the primary shortstop when healthy, Walls will get most of his opportunity at third base and, with Brandon Lowe sidelined at least into June with back issues, at second. (Going into play Tuesday, he has 148-1/3 innings at third, 88 at shortstop and 85-2/3 at second.) Walls, by nature, tends to overanalyze things. Even determining how much work to do before games at each position is something he is still trying to sort out, as he wants to be prepared for all situations that could arise. Some of the positional differences are obvious, but others are nuanced, such as pre-pitch prep, weight shift and body positioning to maximize momentum on throws. “It’s not as simple as just throwing the ball to first base,” Walls said. “Bouncing around from basically covering from the left field line all the way to (a) heavy pull (shift) on a left-handed hitter at second base, those are all throws around the infield that I’m having to work on now, rather than strictly just at shortstop.” Said third base/infield coach Rodney Linares, “It’s a period of adjustment with him. When he plays up the middle, he’s more comfortable. He’s getting more comfortable now playing third. I know he had a bunch of errors early, but ‘Wallsy’ is an elite defender, probably our best defensive infielder. “But, yeah, he’s still learning the angles and how to start (each play). Early in the year, he was playing too deep at third. Now he’s getting more comfortable. And we move around a lot for shifts and stuff, so he’s still getting the hang of doing all those things.” “But, you know, he’s an elite guy, and ground balls are ground balls,” Linares continued. “So wherever you put him he’s going to be good.” Cash noted Walls’ extraordinary range as a key reason “he’s such a special defender and said that might contribute to some of his misplays as he gets to balls others don’t. Rays teammates, having watched Walls for years in the minors and/or spring training and at times after his debut last May, say they have no doubt he will dazzle. “I don’t think anyone is shocked with what they see anymore,” said starter Ryan Yarbrough. “Obviously you have that ‘wow’ factor when he makes those plays, but then when you kind of sit back and think about it, you’re not surprised just because of how great a defender is and the work ethic he puts in. … The fact that he’s able to do that at multiple positions is extremely impressive. He puts a show on every day.” Centerfielder Kevin Kiermaier notes some of the other great up-the-middle defenders the Rays have had, including Adeiny Hechavarria and Willy Adames, and said Walls stands out — from the flashy plays to little things like his initial reactions even to foul balls, indicative of the jumps and reads he routinely gets. “He’s incredible,” Kiermaier said. “He works his butt off. He’s out there every day. Huge fan of him. He’s a guy like me, he can make such an impact on both sides of the ball. He has a gift. He’s just so smooth out there.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.