With the 2022 NFL draft behind us, let’s take a look at some of the players of local interest who have a shot at being picked next year. It’s far too early, of course, to list names with much certainty. But the first name on our list last year was the first state player drafted this year (the Gators’ Kaiir Elam), so this isn’t complete guesswork either. Florida quarterback Anthony Richardson There are a lot of ifs with Richardson, who has only started one game and threw almost as many interceptions (five) as touchdown passes last season. But if he stays healthy, if he masters the new offense and if he progresses from 2021, he’ll be among the most talented draft-eligible quarterbacks in the nation. Miami quarterback Tyler Van Dyke The 6-foot-4, 224-pound Van Dyke is a safer bet at this point than Richardson because he has a stronger track record. He was the ACC’s rookie of the year and became the first Power Five quarterback since Joe Burrow to pass for at least 300 yards and three touchdowns in six consecutive games. Scouts will be closely watching Van Dyke all fall. Florida State defensive back Akeem Dent The former top-50 national recruit has shown up on at least one of the way-too-early mock drafts. We’re not ready to anoint him as a first-round pick yet, but he is poised for a breakout season with the Seminoles. Florida offensive lineman Richard Gouraige The Cambridge Christian alumnus has started 29 games over his Gators career, seeing time at guard and left tackle. At 6-foot-5, 310 pounds, he has an NFL frame and plays for a staff that developed Max Mitchell from a two-star recruit into a fourth-round pick. Miami offensive lineman Zion Nelson A year ago, the early prognostications thought Nelson might be a first-round pick. That, clearly, was premature. But the 6-foot-5, 316-pound South Carolina native has improved throughout his career and will be one of the top returning offensive tackles in the country (with a chance to grow even more under new coach Mario Cristobal). Florida edge rusher Brenton Cox The former five-star recruit considered turning pro this year and said he received a third- or fourth-round grade, which led him to opt for another season with the Gators. “I just felt like I had more to do,” Cox said during the spring. He wants to make a run at UF’s single-season sack record, which would boost his draft stock. Florida State offensive lineman Robert Scott The 6-foot-5, 315-pound Arkansas native was one of the best true freshmen in the country in 2020 and started 11 games for the Seminoles last year. He’ll have a chance at becoming the first FSU offensive lineman drafted in the first two days since 2015. Miami tight end Will Mallory The 6-foot-4, 245-pound Jacksonville native could have entered the draft his year but chose to play another season with the Hurricanes. It wouldn’t be a surprise to see him emerge as one of the nation’s top tight ends this fall. Florida linebacker Ventrell Miller It seems as if Miller’s name has been connected to the draft for ages. He could have left after the 2020 season but stayed at UF for another year. He’s still with the Gators because a biceps injury limited him to only two games last season. Assuming he stays healthy this fall, he’ll have a chance at becoming one of the state’s top draft prospects for 2023. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.