The Palladium Theater wants you to “jump back in, the music is cool” for its robust lineup of summer concerts. The concerts happen in Hough Hall and in the intimate Side Door theater. “We are thrilled to be hosting so many amazing artists this summer at both Hough Hall and the Side Door,” Paul Wilborn, Palladium Theater executive director, said in a press release. “St. Pete is exploding with artistic activity and the Palladium has always been at the heart of the city’s creative pulse.” Tickets are on sale now. Here’s the lineup: Hough Hall St. Pete Pride: QUEER-E-OKEE with Carson Kressley (June 11): Host Carson Kressley will introduce a roster of queer musicians who will perform some of the LGBTQ+ community’s most-beloved songs while the audience sings along with the help of karaoke-style lyrics projected onto a large screen. Sandra Bernhard: An Exclusive St. Pete Pride Performance (June 12): As part of St Pete Pride’s 20th-anniversary programming, Bernhard, a pioneer of the one-woman show, will bring a raucous mix of cabaret, standup, rock-n-roll, and social commentary to her live stage performance. WMNF Juneteenth Celebration (June 18): WMNF 88.5 FM recognizes Juneteeth with an array of Black excellence, starring Vincent Simms and His Band. The Band will perform a Soul revue, plus a tribute to Earth Wind and Fire. Local poets will open the show. The Mountain Goats (July 11):  John Darnielle and Matt Douglas will be performing a special duo performance. Damon Fowler and Friends (July 23): This will be a live recording concert. Selwyn Birchwood (Aug. 5): International Blues Challenge winner Selwyn Birchwood plays with his band. Daniela Soledade, Pretty World Album Launch (Aug 19): Recorded in Rio de Janeiro, the title track is a 1967 composition from pianist and composer Antonio Adolfo and features a special appearance by the composer himself. Side Door Bryan Hughes Cole Swings Cool (June 10): American jazz singer Bryan J. Hughes and his band “The Crew” bring a tribute to Nat King Cole. Michael Kelly: The Pleasing Recollection (June 24 and June 26): Directly from its debut at NYC’s Feinstein’s 54 Below, this cabaret opera set in the mid-1970s is about a young man who lands ashore in Manhattan without a map. The show chronicles his musical adventures as he stumbles into some of the musical and theater giants of the era. With pianist Bénédicte Jourdois. Professor Pennygood’s Mighty Flea Circus (June 25): Winners of the International Rockabilly Rumble and the Best New Original Rockabillly Song in the World 2021, the four-piece band brings “Swingabilly” to the Side Door. WAHH World Fusion Band (July 2): Trailblazers of a multiform sound, WAHH is rooted in India’s rich traditional musical culture and enveloped in an artful weave of jazz, rock and funk. WAHH is joined by L.A.-based sitar player Rajib Karmakar, Japanese bassist Juna Sarita, Thomas Griggs on guitar, Guianna Brave on vocal, Michael Washington on drums and Shakh Lahiri on table and vocals. Ona Kirei Album Release Concert (July 9): Vocalist, composer and arranger Ona Kirei celebrates her album release, featuring La Lucha, James Suggs and Mike diRubbo. Alastair Greene (July 15): Suncoast Blues Society presents blues/rock guitarist and singer-songwriter Alastair Greene. Live Band Burlesque (July 16): ND Theatricals presents A Night of Classic Burlesque and Vaudeville Era Entertainment featuring live music by The BurlyBandits. Jeremy Carter’s Rubber Band (Aug. 6): Music from movies. Simon Laskey, Big Band (Sept. 9): Winner of the 2018 British Composer Awards for his album About The Moment, composer/pianist Simon Lasky presents an evening of original jazz compositions and arrangements for his newly formed U.S version of The Simon Lasky Group, featuring Florida jazz instrumentalists.