Just another mass shooting 10 die in Buffalo grocery attack | May 15 It seems almost every week there is a mass shooting. The blame squarely lands on the government. When nothing was done after those babies were killed at Sandy Hook, I feared all hope was lost. Who in the government has the spine to make a difference in gun control? Beverly G. Isaacs, Seminole Not an accident Accountability, yes, but fairness as well | Editorial, May 13 This editorial about Cameron Herrin sends the wrong message regarding street safety for vulnerable road users. Moreover, it lacked coherence. Your opinion begins by claiming the sentence was excessive, but you never say why other than the other guy, John Barrineau, who was racing along Tampa’s Bayshore Boulevard with Herrin, got a 6-year sentence vs. Herrin’s 24 years. But Barrineau didn’t hit the victims. Herrin did. You point out that sentencing guidelines suggest Herrin should have gotten 18 years but acknowledged that the judge had wide discretion. But now you want Herrin to get less because that’s what the other guy negotiated? Herrin pled guilty but chose not to negotiate a plea deal as Barrineau did, likely hoping he’d get a lighter sentence from the judge. You take your chances, and you live with the consequences. Furthermore, what is a life worth? Your opinion plays into the hands of those who say crashes that kill people are mere “accidents.” Any normal person would know that driving at 100 mph carries risks to vulnerable road users. Barrineau’s sentence was not long enough. Even if Herrin serves his sentence, with time off for good behavior, he can resume his life at 40. Barrineau will be out of jail before his 23rd birthday. The mother and child are dead forever. Bob Griendling, St. Petersburg Not that simple A compromise on abortion | Letter, May 15 The letter writer states that “with today’s technology, no one can say after four missed periods that they didn’t think to take a pregnancy test”? If only this were true. What about the 11-, 12- or 13-year-old who doesn’t have a clue about her body? Some haven’t had their first period. She could have been raped or been a victim of incest. It’s all too common for women to not come forward about a sexual assault. What do you think a child can do? What resources do children have to even go to the store and buy a pregnancy test? Their allowance? Gail Rubinsky, St. Petersburg