TAMPA — The Lightning were turning the tide, and Steven Stamkos had the potential game-tying goal on his stick. Stamkos has scored so many goals from that spot in the left circle that when he rears back and rifles a one-timer from there, he’s expecting to score more times than most. A third-period power play with the Lightning down a goal in Game 3 of their first-round series with Toronto was no exception. “Every time he shoots it from there, you think it’s going in,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “He got a good look, and he got a ton on it.” Nikita Kucherov had threaded a pass from circle to circle through traffic like few can to feed Stamkos, who dropped to one knee and unloaded a shot he thought was destined for the back of the net. “I felt like I got everything and then some,” Stamkos said. Somehow, Leafs goaltender Jack Campbell was able to follow the puck from Kucherov to Stamkos’ stick and swallowed it for the biggest save of the series so far. “Great shot, better save,” Cooper said. This season, the Lightning managed to win a lot of games they likely didn’t deserve to. They overcame early mistakes with late-game resolve. And until Stamkos was robbed with 6:42 left, it seemed the Lightning were on their way to another “find-a-way” victory. Instead, their 5-2 loss to the Maple Leafs proved to be too much of their own early undoing and gave Toronto a 2-1 series edge going into Sunday’s Game 4 at Amalie Arena. “We’ve got to stick with it,” Stamkos said. “Great, great effort. I love the response by our group, but we’ve got to dig deeper here and find a way.” Penalties have hurt the Lightning throughout the season, and through the first two games of the playoffs, both teams found themselves traveling to the penalty box. Friday, the Lightning gave Toronto five power-play opportunities in the first 34 minutes. “The parade to the penalty box, it’s getting exhausting,” Cooper said. Toronto scored just one goal on the power play — Morgan Rielly’s from in front 4:54 into the game — but man-advantage opportunities gave the Leafs momentum early and led to a three-goal Lightning deficit. Toronto also scored on a 3-on-1 breakaway on a goal by Colin Blackwell before David Kampf forced a turnover from Brandon Hagel in the neutral zone and drove into the slot for a 3-0 lead. “We were in the box a lot, so that kills the flow of the game, it kills the momentum,” Stamkos said. “Guys are grinding and working extremely hard there. So you can’t take five penalties in the first half of the game. It’s taxing. Give our penalty killers a ton of credit, give our goaltender a ton of credit. We fought back hard, but it’s tough to go in 3-0 and expect to come back come playoff time.” If the Lightning are going to survive the Leafs and continue their drive for a third straight Stanley Cup, they’re going to have to “find a way” to stay out of the penalty box. The Leafs scored with nine seconds left in Pat Maroon’s delay-of-game penalty for flipping the puck over the glass, and even though they survived a Zach Bogosian high-sticking call midway through the period, they allowed seven scoring chances, including two high-danger chances, on those two penalty kills. Erik Cernak was called for roughing at the first period horn, giving Toronto a power play to open the second. Ryan McDonagh went to the box for another puck-over-glass penalty, and Ondrej Palat was whistled for boarding midway through the second. “The frustrating one (Friday) were the two over the glass,” Cooper said “We didn’t take one in the third, so 15 penalties in eight periods of hockey. That’s not a winning formula. “It’s just hard to chase when you’re in the penalty box the whole time. When we didn’t take any penalties like we did in the third, we got a pretty good return.” Down 3-0, Ross Colton scored a power-play goal midway through the second period, and Palat pulled Tampa Bay within one 5:43 into the third. The Lightning had momentum but couldn’t convert on their third-period power play on which Campbell stopped Stamkos. The Lightning pulled goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy (31 saves) for an extra attacker inside three minutes, but Kucherov’s errant pass from below the goal line escaped Stamkos and led to the first of two Toronto empty-net goals over the final 1:40. “I thought that we kind of came out flat, and we can’t wait for them to go by a couple of goals first to kind of flip the switch,” Colton said. “I think you saw that in the second half of the game, I think we dominated them, just some unlucky bounces there. So I think that just comes down to preparation. We’ve got to come to the rink with a little more urgency.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.