Let them teach the governor Read the four winning entries in the 2022 R.F. ‘Red’ Pittman Tribune Scholars essay contest | May 23 I’m so glad that the Tampa Bay Times published the four winning essays from the 2022 R.F. “Red” Pittman Tribune Scholars essay contest. What enlightened young high school graduates! Would it be too much to ask new education commissioner Manny Diaz and Gov. Ron DeSantis to give these young adults a summer internship in the Florida Department of Education? Who knows? Maybe they would bring their enlightenment to the commissioner and governor. Karla Leavelle, St. Petersburg Vanity legislation Florida law on social media unconstitutional, court says | May 24 Once again, to no one’s surprise, another initiative of Gov. Ron DeSantis, this one on forcing social media to accept anything anybody wants to post, is declared unconstitutional, the latest of a series of his proposals meeting this fate. Meanwhile, Florida’s taxpayers are on the hook for the entire appeal process. Unwittingly, we taxpayers are making contributions to DeSantis’ political future: He signs laws with no chance of passing muster, they are struck down, and he appeals and appeals — making cherished headlines with conservative voters at every step. The state issues “vanity plates” for motorists; we now enact “vanity legislation” for our governor’s career. Unlike the plates, however, all of us pay the bill. Stephen Phillips, St. Petersburg ‘Banned’ as sales tool A fair alternative to book bannings | Editorial, May 24 A sure way to increase book readership is to first ban the book. Remember when the phrase “banned in Boston” appeared in book advertisements as a sales gimmick? Charles E. Lehnert, Sun City Center Pay any (gas) price Average gas price in Florida hits $4.50 | May 17 I do not mind paying the high price of gas to support democracy. None of us do. Even if it’s an extra $200 a month, no price is too high if it will help defeat the Democrats in the mid terms. It it is chump change to get rid of them all. John Spengler, Spring Hill