‘Groundhog Day’ of death 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 In the U.S. we are experiencing the “Groundhog Day” of mass shootings at an ever-accelerating pace as evidenced by the two mass shootings that bookended President Joe Biden’s trip to Asia. Ten Black people were gunned down in Buffalo, New York, and then days later, 21 people were killed in south Texas, not long after the alleged shooter’s 18th birthday. It’s so easy in this country for an 18-year-old, who can’t buy a beer, to be able to acquire a semi-automatic assault rifle — the weapon of choice for mass shooters. George Chase, St. Pete Beach My right not to be shot 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 Apparently in America, assault rifle owners’ rights, which effectively allow teenagers to murder innocent fellow citizens from children to grandparents, outweigh our rights as a free people to not become gunshot victims of teenagers armed with assault rifles. Brian Walkowiak, St. Petersburg More guns than people 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 The elephant in the room is the proliferation of guns in our society. There are more guns in the U.S. than people, and it can be easier to buy a handgun in the U.S. than it is to vote. Here are five suggestions that research has shown will work: 1. Universal background checks; 2. Prohibiting handgun possession by violent offenders; 3. Eliminating “stand your ground” laws that allow deadly force to be the first resort if you’re threatened in a public space; 4. Banning assault weapons; 5. Banning the sale of large-capacity ammunition magazines. A majority of Americans support stricter gun policies. Now all we need is a majority of politicians to find the courage to act. Anthony Edl, Odessa Why we still have COVID It’s up to us to limit COVID’s resurgence | Editorial, May 25 Those who either refuse vaccines and/or do not wear masks or follow simple health protocols are the ones prolonging the coronavirus among us and giving the virus more opportunities to mutate into variants that continue to make people sick, be hospitalized or die. One million-plus people have died in the U.S. in less than 2½ years. It is not like the flu or the common cold! I am tired of being gentle about this. It is irresponsible, selfish and unethical to refuse to do what it takes to end a pandemic. I see no valid excuse for anyone to disregard or thwart efforts to stop this virus. Three of the six family members who planned to visit me fresh off their 8-day cruise were experiencing “allergy” symptoms. If I had not required that they test themselves, they would not have done so. Nor were they inclined to wear a mask. Well, all three tested positive for COVID. I declined to be around them. Except for one who quarantined in a hotel, the other two who were symptomatic walked Universal for two days. The other three who were exposed went to restaurants and shopping — maskless. Folks, that is why we are still in a pandemic. I feel disappointed that “those” people include members of my family. A. O’Brien, Pinellas Park Stay out of the sun I’m 56 years old and I’ll be in a bikini this summer | Perspective, May 22 Sunday’s paper had stories and ads about bathing suits because summer’s upon us. As a senior Florida native, I spent too many of my younger years at the beach or playing baseball, all before we knew anything about sunscreen. Well, a word to the wise: Stay out of the sun as much as possible, and always wear protection. I didn’t as faithfully as I should have, and I’m now paying the price. After a Mohs procedure on the tip of my nose that became wider and deeper than expected, I’m now between two surgeries called a paramedian forehead flap. (Look it up if you have a strong stomach.) Florida is great, but the sun is relentless. Paul S. Cooper, St. Petersburg