The cute story: Remember the story about the Kentucky teacher who sent a Hillsborough County charter school class a snowman last winter? It didn’t end there. The class kept the snowman, nicknamed “Lucky,” in the school freezer, and visited it daily. Then came Earth Day. The kids took Lucky and gave it a new purpose — in the school garden. Read the rest of the story from People. Hot topics Teacher pay: The Pasco County school district and its employee union reached a contract deal after eight months of trying. Both sides said it’s not what they were hoping for. • The Leon County school district is the latest to consider a property tax referendum to support higher wages for teachers, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. • Teachers in Duval County, which also is pursuing a tax referendum, predict a “very bad situation” if their situation doesn’t improve, WJXT reports. Coronavirus concerns: An increase in COVID cases is causing disruptions at south Florida schools, WLRN reports. Math textbooks: The governor’s press secretary cited a specific worksheet as an example of unacceptable work in math books rejected by the Department of Education. It wasn’t from any of the books submitted for use in Florida, Politifact reports. New rules: School districts received guidance about how to comply with new state law regarding students who have seizures, Florida Phoenix reports. School board elections: Three-term Broward County School Board member Laurie Rich Levenson will not seek another term, the Sun-Sentinel reports. She’s the third veteran board member to depart this year. Race lessons: The University of Florida sent faculty members a video explaining its expectations on following HB 7 regarding the discussion of racial matters in classes, WGFL reports. Faculty members were not amused. Other school news The Pinellas County school district planned to break ground this week on a new middle school. The project is stalled over neighborhood traffic concerns. A Hillsborough County graduating senior set the school district’s record for final GPA. Gaither High’s Dylan Mazard earned an 11.84, WFTS reports. Students at a Palm Beach County high school have been building Habitat for Humanity homes. They recently handed over the keys to their ninth project, the Palm Beach Post reports. The Polk County school district hired a teacher who had been accused and charged of inappropriate behavior while working in Osceola County. The Department of Education was in the middle of its own investigation, so the teacher’s certificate remained active, WTSP reports. What’s next for Richard Corcoran? He’s headed to a law firm headed by former state lawmaker and U.S. ambassador Carlos Trujillo, Politico Florida reports. From the court docket ... Jury selection in the Parkland school shooter sentencing case was delayed again Monday, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s the link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... It’s Teacher Appreciation Week. Take some time and think about an educator who made a difference in your life. Thank those who motivate your children. Maybe watch a movie that gives an inspirational portrayal of a classroom leader. Here’s a scene from one favorite to get you started. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.