ARLINGTON, Texas — Shawn Armstrong was interested in re-signing with the Rays following an August-September stint with them last season, when he was promoted from Triple-A Durham after being acquired from Baltimore. The 31-year-old right-hander impressed enough in 11 games that the Rays were open to having him back. There were talks before and after the lockout, a deal didn’t come together and he signed with Miami. But when the Marlins designated him for assignment after a rough first month (a 10.80 ERA in seven games), Armstrong opted for free agency and signed a minor-league deal with the Rays. The fit was comfortable, as he saw Durham as a place where he got better last year and felt he and the team had similar philosophies. And it was convenient, as he lives in nearby Raleigh, N.C. It also was beneficial, as Armstrong did well enough with the Bulls (2.37 ERA and two saves in seven games) to get called up Tuesday to add a fresh arm to the Rays’ bullpen. He worked 1 1/3 scoreless innings, striking out three. “It worked out for the best and I’m just excited to be here,” Armstrong said Armstrong took the open spot on the Rays’ active roster after shortstop Wander Franco went on the injured list, giving them 14 pitchers and 12 position players and thus a three-man bench. Manager Kevin Cash said they’ll assess that situation daily. Lefty Ben Bowden, who was claimed off waivers from Colorado on April 29, was designated for assignment to make room for Armstrong on the 40-man roster. Deep in the heart Jeffrey Springs starts for the Rays on Wednesday against the Rangers, who drafted him in the 30th round in 2015 out of Appalachian State, developed him and got him to the majors before trading him to Boston in January 2020. “This is the organization that gave me a chance,” Springs said. “So forever grateful for that. Just the opportunity to play professional baseball, and they gave me a chance to make it to the big leagues. That’ll never go away.” Hey, you look familiar The plush Rangers clubhouse in the still new-looking Globe Life Field has the look of a Rays reunion. Five of their active players — first baseman Nathaniel Lowe, catcher Jonah Heim, and pitchers Brock Burke, Matt Bush and Matt Moore — spent time with the Rays or in their minor-league system. A sixth, infielder/outfielder Brad Miller, just went on the injured list. Another, infielder/outfielder Nick Solak, was recently sent down to Triple-A. “A lot of familiar faces,” Rays veteran outfielder Kevin Kiermaier said. “Good guys, who have had really good success over here. It’ll be fun playing against them. It’s always fun catching up with old teammates no matter what team they’re on. A couple of those guys, (he) didn’t really get to know them very well as they got traded when they were in the upper minors, but I’m glad to see them have success.” Kiermaier cited Lowe, saying he was “a huge fan” and “he’s going to be playing in the big leagues for many years to come,” as well as Miller, who he called “one of my favorite teammates ever.” Miscellany Ji-Man Choi said Rangers centerfielder Eli White told him he was “sorry” for robbing his three-run homer Monday with an amazing leaping catch at the wall. “I think he picked the wrong career,” Choi said, via team interpreter Daniel Park. “He should have played basketball or volleyball.” ... Shane Baz looked good Monday in his third rehab outing for Durham, throwing 56 pitches over four innings, and is slated for a least one more. He is eligible to return June 6. … There was a pre-game ceremony in remembrance of Jean Ramirez, the Rays bullpen catcher and Fort Worth area resident who died by suicide in January. That included a donation to a local non-profit organization, Keeper of the Game, that provides “unique baseball experiences” to children and young adults with special needs and disabilities. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.