If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Nick Paul’s first two career postseason goals lifted the Lightning to a 2-1 victory over the Maple Leafs Saturday in Game 7 of their opening-round series at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto. Tampa Bay won their ninth straight postseason series dating back to 2020 despite losing Brayden Point in the second period to an apparent lower-body injury. The Lightning advanced to the second round, where they will play the Panthers, who they defeated in the first round last season on their way to the second of consecutive Stanley Cup championships. Paul’s second goal, with 3:28 remaining in the second period, came just over three minutes after the Leafs’ Morgan Rielly scored off the rush to tie the game at 1. Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy was as sharp as ever in a series-clinching game, stopping 30 of 31 shots, including all 17 in the third period. Ross Colton and Cal Foote assisted on the first of Paul’s goals. The second was unassisted. Here’s how it happened: Third period Campbell stops McDonagh from the right circle on a 2-on-1 break Perry slap shot from the top of the right circle smothered by Campbell Hagel shot from in close doesn’t get through Campbell drops to his knees to save quick shot from Kucherov from left point Toronto shot from the point tipped just wide Paul drives into the net and gets pushed by Blackwell into Campbell, who is shaken up, 16:02 left Foote takes out Engvall Palat penalized for hooking Marner, putting the Leafs on the power play with 13:41 remaining Vasilevskiy saves Matthews blast from the right circle Vasilevskiy stops Nylander one-timer from left circle, then Marner from in close Rielly shot tipped in front by Matthews, but Vasilevskiy stops it Lightning kill the Palat penalty, but the Leafs continue to pressure the net Bellemare shot from near the blue line caught by Campbell Muzzin wrist shot from the left circle goes wide Rielly shot blocked into the corner Muzzin shot from the left point blocked in front Giordano shot from the center point blocked in front Mikheyev drives the left side of the net but stopped by Vasilevskiy Giordano wrist shot from long range blocked by Foote Cirelli blocks a shot and sends the puck down the ice Kucherov misses a chance for a breakaway when an official gets into his line of sight Bellemare shot bounces off a leg and goes into the corner Campbell fights off Stamkos backhander from low in the left circle after Kucherov forced a turnover in the neutral zone Leafs pull Campbell in favor of an extra attacker Vasilevskiy makes save on Rielly from the slot after turnover behind the Lightning net Maple Leafs call a timeout Campbell back in the Toronto net Campbell leaves the ice Lightning ice the puck when Hedman pass bounces past Kucherov Lightning clear the puck off the glass and out of the zone for another icing call (Lightning win 2-1, win series 4-3) Second period Brayden Point is back on the Lightning bench The Leafs have 30 seconds of power-play time remaining The Lightning kill the Stamkos penalty Michael Bunting wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Point briefly returns to the ice but quickly goes back to the bench after blocking a shot Tavares shot from the lower left circle blocked by Ondrej Palat Spezza and Blackwell knock down Paul Muzzin shot-pass goes through the middle and wide Muzzin wrist shot saved by Vasilevskiy Brodie slap shot from center point saved by Vasilevskiy Campbell stops Perry from lower left circle after pass from Paul Campbell finds Perry shot through traffic with Maroon in front Paul shot off the rush from low in left circle saved by Campbell after pass from Killorn Matthews shot from right circle goes off Vasilevskiy’s pad Apparent Maple Leafs goal by Tavares from the slot waved off after it was determined that Cirelli was picked illegally by Justin Holl, freeing Tavares. Holl penalized for interference, and Lightning will go on the power play Kucherov shot from right circle blocked by Giordano Campbell stops Hedman shot from the center point, then Killorn and Stamkos have chances in front, but Brodie knocks the puck away from Stamkos Campbell stops Stamkos from left circle Lightning apply incredible pressure, but Leafs manage to kill the Holl penalty Matthews hits Cernak Engvall shot off the rush from the left circle stopped by Vasilevskiy MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Rielly ties the score from right circle off the rush after one-touch pass from Matthews, who got the puck from Marner. Lightning 1, Leafs 1. Engvall shot blocked Bellemare shot goes off a stick into the glass Nylander shoots high on a breakaway opportunity Vasilevskiy stops Matthews from the left circle LIGHTNING GOAL! Nick Paul’s second goal of the game (and the postseason) puts the Lightning back ahead. Paul scores from the slot after grabbing a loose puck along the wall just inside the blue line. Lightning 2, Leafs 1. Rielly gets back down the ice to thwart a potential breakaway chance for Colton (Lightning lead 2-1 after two periods) First period Nick Paul shot is blocked David Kampf shot blocked by Corey Perry, and rebound attempt misses wide Jake Muzzin shot from right point is blocked by Cal Foote Brayden Point forces Alex Kerfoot turnover in Toronto zone, but runs out of room in front and Campbell makes the save Pierre-Edouard Bellemare shot blocked Auston Matthews hits Nick Paul Morgan Rielly shot from the left point saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy. Moments earlier, Zach Bogosian went down on one knee to keep Rielly from driving to the net after Perry stepped on the puck and lost his footing. Vasilevskiy makes save in tight on John Tavares Matthews shot blocked by Foote Marner shot saved by Vasilevskiy Paul shot blocked by Tavares Brandon Hagel penalized for tripping Kerfoot along the sideboards, and the Leafs go on the power play Matthews shot from right circle misses wide and goes down the ice Nylander wrister from right circle saved by Vasilevskiy Tip from Tavares goes wide after pass through the slot from Matthews Nylander misses wide from the left side Lightning kill the penalty Mark Giordano accidentally knocks puck over the glass, resulting in a delay of game penalty and the Lightning’s first power play Nikita Kucherov wrister misses wide David Kampf clears the puck out of the zone Leafs get another clear Steven Stamkos shot from left circle saved by Jack Campbell Victor Hedman blast from center point is saved Hedman wrist shot saved by Campbell Marner pass on shorthanded break doesn’t get through Leafs kill the Giordano penalty Sharp-angle shot by Marner doesn’t get to the net Jason Spezza blast from the right point saved by Vasilevskiy Tavares drives the right side of the net, but Vasilevskiy makes the save Marner wrist shot into traffic from the point knocked down Point limped off the ice after going hard into the boards with 2:49 left. He lost his balance and got his right leg twisted underneath him as he was going back toward the boards Giordano shot from the left point off the rush goes wide LIGHTNING GOAL! Nick Paul scores his first-ever playoff goal on the counter attack after a Toronto odd-man rush. Paul outreaches Rielly to rebound of Ross Colton shot. Lightning 1-0, 1:36. Maple Leafs go on the power play as Marner pulled down and Stamkos is called for holding Vasilevskiy makes save on Mikheyev after cross-ice pass at the buzzer (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report Was it a one-game reprieve? Or something more? We’ll get an answer tonight, when the Lightning play the Maple Leafs in a winner-take-all Game 7 of their opening-round playoff series at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto. Brayden Point scored the winning goal on a rebound of an Alex Killorn shot with less than two minutes remaining in overtime as Tampa Bay avoided elimination and extended the series with a 4-3 victory Thursday at Amalie Arena. The win kept the Lightning’s hopes alive for a third consecutive Stanley Cup championship. But whether it was for another game or at least another series remains to be seen. To advance, the Bolts will need a a similar effort to Thursday’s, when they came out fast, outshooting the Maple Leafs 12-6 in the first period, took a two-goal lead, then showed resiliency in coming back after the Leafs scored twice in a 26-second span of the second period to move ahead. Tampa Bay also played heavy, outhitting Toronto 60-48. The Lightning’s stars showed up, as Vasilevskiy stopped 30 of 33 shots, including all 13 over the third and overtime periods, Nikita Kucherov scored the tying goal during a 5-on-3 power play with assists from Point and Steven Stamkos, and Victor Hedman was plus-2 with four shots on goal while playing a game-high 31:43. Ondrej Palat scored his third goal of the playoffs, tying Ross Colton for the team lead, and Anthony Cirelli gave the Bolts their first shorthanded goal of the postseason with a spin-o-rama shot that was the most spectacular of the series so far. On the other side of the ice, NHL goal-scoring leader Auston Matthews scored his fourth goal of the playoffs, John Tavares crammed two into the final 34 seconds of the second period, and William Nylander added two assists. Mitch Marner was held off the scoresheet but was a constant threat with the puck on his stick. Can Tampa Bay reverse the trend in the series by becoming the first team to win back-to-back games and send Toronto to a 10th straight loss in a series-clinching game? Follow our live coverage, starting at 7 p.m., as the Lightning have a chance to wrap up a ninth consecutive playoff series dating to 2020 and advance to the second round, where they would face the Panthers. Game day scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.