ARLINGTON, Texas — The Rays on Tuesday decided enough was enough after Wander Franco’s latest leg issue and placed the star shortstop on the 10-day injured list. Franco has been dealing with quad and hamstring issues in both legs since late April, forcing him to be out of the lineup for four games, relegated to designated hitter duty in five others and limited at times in what he could do when playing, such as not sliding at home plate in extra innings earlier this month in Baltimore. Franco left Monday’s game in the ninth inning after feeling “a little tug” in his right quad while turning first base after a single he intended to stretch into a double. When checked in his hotel room by head athletic trainer Joe Benge Tuesday morning, Franco said he wanted to play but was not sure he’d be able to run, the uncertainty a new element in the ongoing discussion about his status. The Rays decided then that he needed time to heal. The injury is being called a right quad strain for now, with the the expectation Franco, 21, will miss 10-15 days. He was scheduled to undergo an MRI on Tuesday night to make sure the issue wasn’t a tear, which could sideline him for six or more weeks. “Probably it was just time,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “(He’s a) young player that wanted to continue to play. We felt it was the right decision to try to get him healthy.” With Franco out, Taylor Walls will get most of the playing time at shortstop, his natural and preferred position. Walls has been serving in the utility infield role, playing third base (148-1/3 innings), shortstop (88) and second base (85-2/3). With slugging second baseman Brandon Lowe also out with a back injury, Vidal Brujan and Isaac Paredes will share time at the other middle infield spot. Another factor in the Franco decision, Cash acknowledged, is that “he hasn’t been himself recently,” hitting .232 with no homers, six RBIs and a .566 OPS in 25 May games, even with three hits on Monday. In contrast, Franco hit .313 with four homers, 13 RBIs and a .912 OPS in 20 games in April. Franco, who signed an 11-year, $182 million contract before this season, also served an injured stint in September for right hamstring tightness. He was clearly frustrated with the latest situation in talking with reporters after Monday’s game. Asked then if he considered that the rest from an injured-list stint might be beneficial, Franco said via team interpreter Manny Navarro, “It kind of (concerns) me a little bit to go on the IL. I think maybe that’s why I hadn’t been playing as well as I have been, because I’m (concerned) to go on the IL.” Reliever Shawn Armstrong was called up from Triple-A Durham to take the open spot on the 26-man active roster, with lefty Ben Bowden designated for assignment to make room on the 40-man roster. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.