Former Bucs tight end Calvin Magee, a member of Jim Leavitt’s inaugural coaching staff at USF, died Friday after suffering a heart attack the previous weekend. Magee, also an assistant on the 1995 Tampa Catholic boys basketball team that won the Class 3A state title, was 59. A college coaching journeyman, he had been hired in December as offensive coordinator under Rich Rodriguez at Division I-AA Jacksonville (Ala.) State. “Our hearts are broken with the loss of our beloved friend Calvin Magee,” Rodriguez, who worked with Magee in three stints at previous schools, said in a statement. “Calvin was a great husband, great father and grandfather, great coach, great friend and great man. He impacted my life and the lives of so many others in such a positive way.” A New Orleans native who played at Southern University, Magee made the Bucs roster as an undrafted free agent in 1985 and caught a touchdown pass against the Bears for his first NFL reception. In four seasons with Tampa Bay (1985-1988), he totaled 114 catches for 1,379 yards and 11 touchdowns. Following his pro career, he spent six seasons as offensive coordinator at Tampa Catholic and served as a Crusaders basketball assistant. “Calvin Magee was such an important part of our (1995) state championship team,” Crusaders basketball coach Don Dziagwa said. “Not only was he a great assistant coach and mentor to our players, he actually practiced with our team every day as we only had eight players. He will forever be remembered as a state champion. We wouldn’t have won the title without him.” Magee then joined Leavitt’s inaugural USF staff in 1996 and remained with the Bulls for their first four seasons before joining Rodriguez at West Virginia. Magee later served as Rodriguez’s offensive coordinator at Michigan (2008-2010) and worked at five other schools before re-joining Rodriguez at Jacksonville State. “My heart goes out to the family of Calvin Magee who just passed,” Leavitt posted on Twitter. “I hired Calvin from Tampa Catholic at USF. Rose (Magee’s wife) and their children are special. Calvin meant so much to me and many others.” Magee is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. He also had grandchildren, though a Jacksonville State release didn’t specify how many. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.