Price gas by the quart Average gas price in Florida hits $4.50 | May 17 Instead of changing all the gas pumps to handle the eventual $10 per gallon prices, just change them to sell by the quart. Plus, this way when you’re out driving around and see the gas prices, they will look cheaper. Just think: $1.99 on the gas station sign again! James Molloy, Pinellas Park Protecting kids is a family value Police: Texas gunman walked through apparently unlocked door | May 27 As a 30-year Air Force veteran, I’ve fired assault weapons like the M-16 (AR-15 equivalent) many times. I’ve been a gun owner since I was 16 years old. Even so, I wouldn’t want to face an assault weapon with my rifle or handgun. I never thought too much about gun control until the Columbine High School shooting in 1999. Once I did the research, my eyes were opened. Safe gun laws make for a safer society. The statistics show it all. For example, Australia implemented strict gun laws in 1996 after a mass shooting with an AR-15 that killed 35 people. They haven’t had a single mass shooting in the years since. And Australian citizens can still get guns for hunting and self-protection. My heart breaks for the families of the Uvalde school shooting. I’m sure there are many root causes as to why we’re seeing an increase in mass shootings and especially in school shootings. However, all of the statistics show that safe gun laws are one of the most effective ways to stem gun violence. I’ve been terribly disappointed in the lack of action by Congress, unfortunately hindered by my party, the Republican Party, because of the millions of dollars they get from the NRA. Conservative values revolve around the family. Lax gun laws put our families at risk, especially our school children. That’s why passing common sense legislation that will keep our kids safe from gun violence supports our conservative values. Lonnie Hammack, Orlando The way it is How to talk to your kids about mass shootings | May 26 This front page headline reads: “How to talk to your kids about mass shootings.” The answer is grimly simple: Tell them, “Learn to live with it.” That’s the way things are these days. Wayne H. Smith, St Petersburg