TORONTO — There can be dramatic ebbs and flows over the course of a playoff series, and the officiating can change game by game as well. The referees lowered the hammer in the Lightning’s Game 1 loss to Toronto, trying to control a physical game by assessing 24 penalties between the teams. The coaches also play a role with some pregame posturing. Before Game 1, Toronto coach Sheldon Keefe said that he expected a “borderline violent” series. And before tonight’s Game 2, Lightning coach Jon Cooper said he believed there was a “heightened awareness” to control the game after the final regular-season meeting between the teams on April 21 drew 30 penalties, including nine roughing calls and four misconducts. Cooper said that the one-game suspension Toronto’s Kyle Clifford received for boarding Lightning forward Ross Colton on Monday was “probably warranted with the way things are going,” but said he didn’t think it was a dirty hit. “I don’t think Clifford went in there to hurt the guy,” Cooper said. “I don’t think he thought that was a result that was going to happen. I think if Colton had the chance to prepare himself for it, it probably wouldn’t have been the same result. He just didn’t see him coming. I didn’t think there was malice. I didn’t think he was going to smash his face into the glass. But there’s no history between Clifford and Colton.” Cooper still said that he believed Game 1 was called fairly, and that both teams took “dumb” penalties. For the Lightning this season, committing bad stick penalties has often correlated with losing hockey. “Even when I go back and look and we went down to 5-on-3 at the time I was kind of (complaining) about it and then I looked at it again I’m like you know what, it was just dumb on our part,” Cooper said of the back-to-back cross-checking penalties on Mikhail Sergachev and Jan Rutta that gave Toronto a 5-on-3 that led to an Auston Matthews’ power play goal. “So I think the refs called what was supposed to be called and the teams were probably a little bit careless in their game.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.