OAKLAND, Calif. — A lot was made in one corner of the happy Rays clubhouse after Tuesday’s dramatic 10-7, 10-inning win about how Wander Franco called Mike Zunino’s two-run, game-tying home run in the ninth just before he hit it. But on the other side, reliever Andrew Kittredge revealed an even bolder prediction in the bullpen after Brett Phillips hit a two-run homer in the second inning that cut a four-run deficit to 5-3 following Ryan Yarbrough’s rough five-run first. “We got down early, and then Philly hits the home run ... and we said, ‘We’re going to win this game,’” Kittredge said. “We’ve just to put up zeroes and give our offense a chance. ... It was a collective agreement.” No one was arguing the semantics, as the Rays (14-10) celebrated the well-earned win, overcoming a 5-1, first-inning deficit by tying the game at 5 with one out in the ninth on Zunino’s pinch-hit homer, then taking the lead in the 10th on Yandy Diaz’s leadoff double before scoring four more. “We were all pumped up,” manager Kevin Cash said. “That was a big, big win coming from behind, early deficit, guys just stayed at it.” As much as the hitters came through in several key moments, the bigger story was the work of the bullpen. With Yarbrough lasting just 2-1/3 innings, the relievers had a heavy workload and again handled it extraordinarily well. With Ryan Thompson, Jeffrey Springs (working 3-1/3 innings), Matt Wisler and Kittredge teaming for 6-2/3 innings, the Rays allowed only two singles, and both runners were erased on double plays. Jason Adam then allowed two runs on two hits in the ninth. “They’re pretty special with what they do,” Zunino said. “The bullpen has been nothing but spectacular for us, and to keep us in ballgames like that.” The game — played before an announced 2,815, a slight increase from Monday’s 2,488 — didn’t start well. The Rays got a run in the first, but Yarbrough, making his first start after a longer-than-expected injured list stint due to groin tightness, allowed five runs in a messy 31-pitch first. Phillips’ homer got the Rays to 5-3 in the second, but that was about it for Tampa Bay until the ninth. Down to their last two outs, Manuel Margot got the Rays started with a single off lefty reliever Kirby Snead. Having tabbed righty Isaac Paredes to pinch-hit for Brandon Lowe to start the inning, Cash turned next to Zunino. After Zunino swung and missed at a slider, Franco said he turned to Diaz on the bench and said to watch for Zunino to hit it out. “He told me that if (Snead) throws Zunino a slider anywhere in the middle or down towards his back foot that he was going to take it out,” Diaz said via team interpreter Manny Navarro, “and he did.” Zunino said he has been feeling more comfortable at the plate after a rough start, and it showed. “You know how it is here, you’ve always got to be ready off the bench, and Cash seems to push the right buttons,” Zunino said. “I felt like I’ve been in a good spot or getting into a better spot, so to see a result, it was nice.” Starting the 10th with a runner on second under the carried-over rule, the Rays were aggressive. Diaz, initially just trying to advance Harold Ramirez, made an adjustment and instead laced an RBI double to right-center. “I was trying to actually just to get a ground ball to second base,” Diaz said, “but luckily I hit it into the gap and got a double.” The Rays added on from there and needed just about all of their runs. Paredes, acquired from the Tigers and called up when Ji-Man Choi went on the injured list Sunday, bounced a ball over third to score two. Margot tripled in another. And Zunino singled in Margot to make it 10-5, which turned out to be good enough. “We’ve grinded through some series and some games, it feels like, for basically all season long,” Cash said. “But this is a feel-good win, that you’re able to come out on top coming back. Whatever this month has told us, the guys haven’t changed their thought process whatsoever. It’s a very similar group that knows that they’re capable of doing special things in any given inning.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.