TORONTO — Special teams have played a huge role in the Lightning’s first-round series. And even though Tampa Bay took control of Wednesday’s Game 2 with a resurgent power play, penalty kills first provided a spark. They held Toronto’s power play, ranked No. 1 in the league during the regular season, scoreless in four man-advantage opportunities in Tampa Bay’s 5-3 win. Before defenseman Victor Hedman opened scoring right before the first period expired, the Lightning killed off two penalties in the first 13 minutes. Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy made six saves and faced 13 shot attempts on those two power plays. “That just gave us energy and we took off from there,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. It was ironically similar to how the Maple Leafs killed off seven minutes of power play time in the first 13 minutes of Game 1 to help propel them to victory. After Toronto closed within two goals in the third period Wednesday, the Lightning had to kill off another penalty when Brayden Point was called for slashing with 2:35 left in the game, fighting off a 6-on-4 with the goalie pulled for an extra attacker. “The PK’s doing a heck of a job,” forward Brandon Hagel said. “Obviously (the Maple Leafs’) power play is unbelievable over there. And they’ve got some good players over there. So for us to be able to kill those off is huge, and we definitely found a way to win the game.” Forwards Hagel and Nick Paul, the team’s two trade deadline acquisitions, have both fit into their PK spots nicely. “Our PK was fairly well during the year but when we got Hagel and Paul, (they have) added a little pop to us, given us a little depth,” Cooper said. Colton calls Clifford hit ‘dirty’ Replays of Kyle Clifford’s Game 1 hit on Lightning forward Ross Colton have played over and over on Canadian sports networks. Clifford received a five-minute boarding penalty and a game misconduct ejection. On Tuesday, the league’s department of player safety issued Clifford a one-game suspension. Colton seemed to bite his tongue when asked whether he thought Clifford’s suspension was fair. “It’s not up to me,” Colton said. “When I went back to watch it, it was pretty dirty. That’s pretty much all I’ve got to say.” Cooper said that the one-game suspension was “probably warranted with the way things are going,” referring to the 24 penalties between the teams, including six misconduct calls, in the opener. “I don’t think Clifford went in there to hurt the guy,” Cooper added. “I don’t think he thought that was a result that was going to happen. I think if Colton had the chance to prepare himself for it, it probably wouldn’t have been the same result. He just didn’t see him coming.” • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.