ST. PETERSBURG — The best week of the Rowdies’ season might have been one in which they played no matches. After a grind of a schedule that made it difficult to practice between games, the Rowdies finally had a proper week to prepare and it paid off in a 5-1 demolition of Phoenix Rising on Sunday. Now, Tampa Bay has had a relatively normal stretch to get ready for another strong opponent, as the Pittsburgh Riverhounds visit Al Lang Stadium Saturday at 7:30 p.m. “We hardly trained for two weeks, and the games just kept coming thick and fast,” head coach Neill Collins said. “We’re a team that, when we get the opportunity to prepare, we’re at our best. So it was great to do that, the players showed the benefits of that. That time will stand us in good stead for the rest of the season.” The Rowdies played five matches during a 22-day stretch — tough but not unfair until you consider that three straight were on the road in an eight-day span. In between, Tampa Bay had time only to travel and recover. After the last road game (a 3-1 loss April 27 at Memphis), it returned home to play just three days later. Each of the Rowdies’ last three opponents had at least six days off beforehand, San Diego nearly two weeks. Still, Tampa Bay led that game with 15 minutes left before giving up a pair of late scores in a 3-2 loss. The Rowdies finally had a full two weeks between matches before meeting Phoenix, last year’s Western Conference regular-season champ. It didn’t show at first, as the Rising went ahead 1-0 within the first 20 minutes. But a memorable score got Tampa Bay going less than 10 minutes later, as Leo Fernandes delivered an incredible backheeled pass to Jake LaCava, who converted his team-high fifth goal. Midfielder Lewis Hilton, named to the USL Championship team of the week for his performance, delivered a 30-yard through ball to Dayonn Harris, who chipped it past the goalkeeper for the lead. Right before halftime, Jake Areman’s full-field run ended with a pass from LaCava and Areman’s marker to make it 3-1. “There’s no guarantees when you play Pittsburgh, or when you play any team in this league,” Collins said. “I think what the result against Phoenix did was show us what we’re capable of, what I thought we were capable of. There’s still a couple of things that we need to iron out, and we’ve still got a couple of important guys nursing injuries.” Valued defender/right wingback Conner Antley missed the Phoenix game and should be out again. Harris and Areman, who had combined for one goal and six starts but earned the call during the productive week of practice, left with injuries shortly after scoring. Fernandes, who started and performed well in more of an attacking role, slotted into Areman’s wing position as a result.. Louisville City (7-1-3, 24 points) leads the Eastern Conference, with second-place Pittsburgh (7-2-1, 22 points) six up on the fifth-place Rowdies (4-3-4, 16 points). It makes Saturday’s a critical contest. Pittsburgh, which went 2-1-1 against Tampa Bay last season, features a lot of the same talent, led by Dane Kelly, who is tied for the league lead with six goals. Kenardo Forbes, the USL Championship’s all-time assist leader with 49, also is back. The Riverhounds have shut out three of their last four opponents, including back-to-back 1-0 victories at home. Prior to that, Pittsburgh was shut out in three of four contests. “While it’s going to be a really tough game against Pittsburgh, we always like ourselves at home,” Collins said. Of all things, the Rowdies will get another 10 days before their next match.