Logan Saul and his parents had been heckling each other for weeks, anticipating that the Lightning and Maple Leafs would face each other in the first round of the playoffs. His parents had joked that he might need to find a new place to stay if the teams squared off. The joke became reality Monday afternoon when Logan’s mother, Stacey, relocated part of his bedroom out on their Clearwater front yard. Logan came home from Clearwater High School to find his favorite Lightning blanket, jerseys and other team-themed paraphernalia out on the lawn. “We’ve been putting this thing together for a little bit as we got closer to the playoffs,” Stacey said. “We were like, ‘Oh no, we cannot live in the same house if we’re going to play the Lightning in the playoffs,’ and here we are.” Stacey and her husband, Jason, were born and raised in Toronto. The die-hard Maple Leafs fans moved to the Clearwater area 23 years ago but couldn’t convince their son to root for any other team but the Lightning. Stacey spent 15 minutes Monday moving furniture outside. She also gave Logan a canopy tent, inflatable bed, a framed family photo on his bedside table and a roll of toilet paper. “I set it up to make it feel homey,” Stacey joked. At 2:15 p.m., Logan pulled into his driveway and saw his new digs. “I was very surprised because I didn’t know what was happening,” Logan said. “The fact that she took time out of her work day to do it is pretty amazing.” Now he’s considering just staying outside to watch Game 1 — puck drop at 7:30 p.m. — on his phone. “I’m very comfortable,” said Logan, 17. “I appreciate the toilet paper. I might need it; I can toilet paper the house (after the game).” Luckily for Logan, the family’s friend and neighbor, Joe Boiber, offered shelter. “He’ll be at my house watching the game,” Boiber said. “And sleeping in our guest bedroom if the Lightning win.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.