If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Steven Stamkos, Pierre-Edouard Bellemare and Pat Maroon scored in the first eight minutes, and the Lightning lead the Maple Leafs 6-2 in the third period of Game 4 of their opening-round playoff series tonight at Amalie Arena. Ross Colton and Corey Perry scored in the first six minutes of the second period to extend the lead to 5-0. The Maple Leafs replaced goaltender Jack Campbell with backup Erik Kallgren less than midway through the second period. The Leafs finally got on the board on William Nylander’s power-play goal 2:27 into the third. Ondrej Palat scored into an empty net with 5:20 remaining. Tampa Bay trails the best-of-seven series two games to one. Follow our live updates throughout the game: Third period Ross Colton snap shot saved by Erik Kallgren Ondrej Palat shot deflected up out of play by Justin Joll Steven Stamkos one-timer from the right side of the net stopped by Kallgren. Mikhail Sergachev penalized for roughing MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: William Nylander scores on a tip in front. Lightning lead 5-1. Michael Bunting penalized for high-sticking, putting the Lightning on the power play for the eighth time in the game Stamkos shot saved by Kallgren Victor Hedman wrist shot from the center point misses high Sergachev breaks up Alex Kerfoot pass on a Toronto odd-man rush Sergachev blocks Ilya Mikheyev shot on a breakaway Brandon Hagel takes heavy hit from Ilya Lyubushkin Mikheyev (roughing) and McDonagh (slashing) receive minor penalties, so the teams will play 4-on-4 for the next two minutes Kallgren makes save on high shot from Hedman MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Nylander scores on a blast from the left circle. Lightning lead 5-2. Pierre Engvall shot saved by Vasilevskiy The Maple Leafs pull Kallgren in favor of an extra attacker with just under six minutes remaining LIGHTNING GOAL! Ondrej Palat scores into a net with 5:20 remaining. Lightning lead 6-2. Second period We’ll start with four-on-four play for the first 1:33 Cirelli just misses connecting with Stamkos on a 2-on-1 after Rielly blocks the pass with his skate McDonagh one-timer saved by Campbell Point weaves through the Toronto defense but just misses from in close Engvall shot from the point saved by Vasilevskiy Hedman shoots wide after feed from Colton LIGHTNING GOAL: Colton beats Campbell gloveside with wrister from left circle. Cal Foote makes a nice play at the blue line to keep the puck alive, and Brandon Hagel feeds Colton. Lightning leads 4-0. John Tavares penalized for tripping Corey Perry. Daniel Kampf penalized for delay of game, and Lightning now have 5-on-3 for nearly two minutes. Victor Hedman not on the ice for the power play LIGHTNING GOAL! Corey Perry scores from low in the left circle. Lightning lead 5-0. Ondrej Kase now penalized four minutes for high-sticking after drawing blood from Nick Paul. We’ll have 15 seconds of 5-on-3, then nearly four minutes of 5-on-4 play Hedman penalized for tripping Marner Erik Kallgren replaces Campbell in the Toronto goal with more than 13 minutes remaining in the second period Kallgren stops Colton from the right circle off the rush Palat wrist shot misses wide Hedman’s out of the box, so Lightning now have more than a minute of power-play time Pierre Engvall penalized for slashing Kucherov penalized for tripping Marner, ending the Lightning power play TJ Brodie penalized for slashing Paul (Lightning lead 5-0 after two periods) First period LIGHTNING GOAL! Steven Stamkos scores on a one-timer from the high slot one minute into the game. Lightning lead 1-0. Zach Bogosian wrist shot saved by Jack Campbell Ondrej Kase shot stopped by Andrei Vasilevskiy Brayden Point hits Alex Kerfoot Victor Hedman slap shot saved by Campbell Jake Muzzin hits Corey Perry LIGHTNING GOAL! Pierre-Edouard Bellemare scores on a rebound from the low slot, up over Campbell’s shoulder on the glove side. Lightning lead 2-0. (5:20) Jake Muzzin hits Brayden Point LIGHTNING GOAL! Pat Maroon dekes Campbell to score on a breakaway. Lightning lead 3-0. Jason Spezza penalized for cross-checking Maroon, and the Lightning go on the power play Leafs win the faceoff and clear the puck Campbell makes pad save on Kucherov shot from the right circle, and Leafs clear the zone Leafs send the puck back down the ice Point drives down the slot, but Campbell stops his backhand shot with a leg save Stamkos one-timer from left circle misses Nick Paul gets knocked down but still manages to get the puck out of the Lightning zone Auston Matthews backhand shot hits the post Morgan Rielly deflection stopped by Vasilevskiy William Nylander blast from the high slot misses wide Erik Cernak penalized for tripping Mitch Marner Marner shot knocked down by Ryan McDonagh Nylander shot saved Lightning clear the puck out of the zone Vasilevskiy stops Kase shot Nick Paul draws cross-checking penalty against Kase on 2-on-1 with Anthony Cirelli, but Paul is penalized, as well, for tripping, so we’ll have 4-on-4 play (Lightning lead 3-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report So, what do we think about the Lightning three games into their opening-round series? They got blown out in Game 1, then returned the favor two nights later. It was hard to tell what to make of them in Game 3, since they played shorthanded for much of the early going and fell behind 3-0. They were relentless in the third period, outshooting the Maple Leafs 14-7 and coming within inches several times of tying the game before allowing two empty-net goals late in a 5-2 loss. I can’t imagine any playoff team would want to face the kind of pressure that Tampa Bay applied down the stretch. But can the Lightning play with that same level of energy for 60 minutes? We should get a better sense tonight, when they host the Leafs in Game 4 at Amalie Arena desperately wanting to avoid falling into a 3-1 series hole. If it can avoid the penalty box, Tampa Bay seemed to find some chemistry when it moved Nikita Kucherov onto Brayden Point’s line with Anthony Cirelli, and teamed Alex Killorn with Steven Stamkos and Ondrej Palat. The Point-Cirelli-Killorn line was the Lightning’s best over the past two games and did a nice job against the Auston Matthews line in Game 3, holding the NHL goal-scoring leader without a point for the first time in the series. Breaking up the line trio spread the wealth and seemed to rejuvenate all four Tampa Bay lines. The Lightning also did a better job of getting to the front of the net, putting shots on goal, keeping pucks alive and creating second and third chance opportunities. Leafs goaltender Jack Campbell kept the tying goal from getting past him, but the Bolts clearly made his job more difficult than they did at any point earlier in the series. Which way will the momentum tilt tonight? We’ll find out together, starting at 7 p.m. Game day scene • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.