TAMPA — The Bucs have a veteran team led by Tom Brady that is expecting to win a Super Bowl. But that doesn’t mean the eight players from their 2022 draft class can’t make an instant impact. “They’re going to get every opportunity to (make an immediate impact),” Bucs vice president of player personnel John Spytek said Saturday. “When you start kind of going through with (second-round picks) Logan (Hall) and Luke (Goedeke), they’re going to get a chance to be thrown in there right away and compete. If Cade (Otton) comes back healthy, he’s got a chance to get in, just given the room. Rachaad (White) is a great receiving back, so he’s going to get a chance there, and obviously Jake will get a chance to compete. “If we can add guys that can help this year, great; and if we can’t, we can develop them and they can play in time. I really think that’s the best way to build a team. We don’t need every rookie to come in and play big, meaningful snaps. It’s great when they can but if they don’t need to and they need to develop, we can be patient with them, too.” Here’s Spytek’s quick analysis of the Bucs’ draft class (some answers edited for clarity and/or brevity): Round 2, No. 33 overall: Logan Hall, DT, Houston He fits a lot of what we’re looking for. He’s a great kid. He’s a humble kid from a military family. He’s our kind of person. I think you’ve kind of seen him grow as a player the last couple years and then really show what he can do late in the season this year. He had a great game against Cincinnati in the (AAC) championship game and then went down to the Senior Bowl and did well. We were trying to get a little younger up front, some athleticism, which he fits all that. You know, it’s a risk to move from 27 to 33 and not only maybe lose him, but you lose the (fifth)-year option here, too. I felt like we wanted to get some draft capital to be able to move around the late rounds. Round 2, No. 57 overall: Luke Goedeke, OG, Central Michigan I talked to him yesterday, I said it will be fun to have another person they make fun of their accent around here — another Wisconsinite. Winsconsin is a big state but I’m familiar with that part of country he’s fron and he’s probably a big Packers fan so we’ll beat that out of him. But a good ol’ Wisconsin boy. Drives a tractor to school one day. Some schools where I played growing up did the same thing. Round 3, No. 91 overall: Rachaad White, RB, Arizona State He just loves football. He loves watching football. He’s able to talk about (former NFL running backs) Jamaal Charles and Arian Foster when a lot of guys are not able to do that. The adversity he’s gone through to get there, a lot of people quite frankly in life would quit and say, ‘this just isn’t for me,’ and he refused to do that. Not only finds his way to Arizona State but produces there. ... The energy, the optimism that he just has, you kind of fall in love with it. And when the tape backs it up, it’s even better. Round 4, No. 106 overall: Cade Otton, TE, Washington He obviously missed some of the season with the (knee) injury but when you watch him play, you see kind of more of a wide tight end and just everything he does, he competes. He competes, he works to finish plays. He strains to finish plays. We talk about all this stuff in our meetings with what we’re looking for. We still have Cam (Brate) under contract and Codey (McElroy) and they fit more of the F role, so he’s a great addition from that standpoint. Round 4, No. 133 overall: Jake Camarda, P, Georgia We liked him a lot; he fits a lot of what we’re looking for. He has an incredible leg. ... He’s got the ability to really hang the ball high and drive it 60-plus yards down the field. Mike (Biehl, director of college scouting) and I were at the SEC championship game, and don’t hold me to the exact distance of the punt, but it was like a 70ish-yard punt that went out at the 2. So when you’re looking for a punter that you’re going to draft in the fourth (round), you’re looking for that kind of ability to flip the field, change the game almost. They go from backed up to backing up Alabama. Just really enjoyed watching him through the process. I mean, he goes to the combine and competes. Those guys don’t have to run 40s, but he goes out and runs 4.5. Round 5, No. 157 overall: Zyon McCollum, CB, Sam Houston State I think we certainly would expect that, with the three corners that we have, that he goes in and competes to be a four-phase special-teamer, and we’re certainly looking for gunners. It’s as important a position as there is in special teams, and with that speed, size and strength that he has, we would expect him to compete and probably take one of those roles. He’s a great kid, he’s a team guy, and I know he’ll embrace that challenge and will be willing to do that while he learns the defense and grows as a corner, and we’ll see if he can grow into a starting corner for us some day. Round 6, No. 218 overall: Ko Kieft, TE, Minnesota Kind of more of a Y (tight end). Probably not quite as athletic as Cade (Otton), but really a mauler. We kind of fell in love with the tape and the competitiveness. He is a guy that can do some stuff out of the backfield if we so chose to go that route and use a fullback a little bit. Round 7, 248 overall: Andre Anthony, Edge, LSU He’s a great kid. ... He’s got the size we’re looking for at that position. He’s a really good athlete, now he’s going to have to come back from that (ACL) injury, obviously, and still be the athlete that he is. But we have every expectation that he’s going to be able to do that. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.