A Pinellas County Construction Licensing Board employee has been arrested on public corruption charges after deputies said she entered into an improper business relationship with a company she was assigned to investigate. Andrea Wagner, 39, worked as an investigator for the licensing board, Pinellas Sheriff Bob Gualtieri said at a news conference Wednesday. She struck up a relationship with the owners of St. Petersburg-based Credence Construction in 2020, Gualtieri said, and began referring clients to them. She also loaned the company $90,000 over the course of the year and cited citizens who filed complaints against the company to the licensing board, Gualtieri said. The company refurbished properties that Wagner owned, and purchased a home from her, Gualtieri said. However, she never signed the deed. Wagner told the company she was dissatisfied with their work on the house and the two parties worked out a settlement in which Credence would repay the $90,000 loan, $9,000 in interest and the $115,000 cost of the home, Gualtieri said. When Wagner learned that Credence Construction listed the home for sale at a much higher price in April 2022 after finishing the remodeling, Wagner demanded that the company pay the settlement money and an additional $136,000, for a total of $350,000, the Sheriff said. She also offered to turn a blind eye to any complaints against the company in the future, Gualtieri added. One of the owners of Credence, Chris Thompson, contacted his attorney, who alerted Pinellas County government. The municipal government alerted the sheriff’s office, which began investigating about five or six weeks ago, Gualtieri said. Wagner was arrested Wednesday morning. The construction company could not be immediately reached for comment. The arrest isn’t the first time the board has been in the midst of a public scandal. The previous board was dissolved in 2018 and placed under the authority of the Pinellas County Commission after an inspector general’s report and a grand jury found that the board failed in its duties to consumers. A 2017 Tampa Bay Times investigation found that the board’s executive director intervened in hundreds of cases without the board’s approval. The board, which did not report to any other agencies at the time, also failed to keep public records of its meetings and entertained multiple conflicts of interest, the Times also found. This is a developing story. Stay with tampabay.com for updates.