The key to saving your most important possessions from a major storm fits in your pocket. Smartphones have changed the hurricane prep game. You can use them to take photos of your possessions for your insurer; scan and store copies of your important financial and medical records; save your most prized photos; and, afterward, take notes and photos of any damage. All that information can be saved via an online cloud storage service, so even a lost or damaged phone won’t prevent you from filing insurance claims and starting your recovery. You’ll still want to take some physical possessions with you during an evacuation, but phones can lighten that load. One thing your phone may not be able to do after a storm is pay for anything. Power and communications could be down. Don’t count on credit cards, mobile payment apps like Apple Pay and Venmo, or banks being open. Keep enough cash on hand (and hidden) to get by for at least seven days after a storm. Here’s a quick guide to preserving your stuff. Create a checklist Protect your possessions How to go digital Preservation checklist A guide to the records you should try to save. Personal records Financial and property records • • • 2021 Tampa Bay Times hurricane guide IT’S STORM SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane THE TRUTH IS OUT THERE: Seven hurricane myths that need to go away BACK UP YOUR DATA: Protect your data, documents and photos BUILD YOUR HURRICANE KIT: Gear up — and mask up — before the storm hits PROTECT YOUR PETS: Here’s how to keep your pets as safe as you NEED TO KNOW: Click here to find your evacuation zone and shelter • • • Rising Threat: A special report on flood risk and climate change PART 1: The Tampa Bay Times partnered with the National Hurricane Center for a revealing look at future storms. PART 2: Even weak hurricanes can cause huge storm surges. Experts say people don’t understand the risk. PART 3: Tampa Bay has huge flood risk. What should we do about it? INTERACTIVE MAP: Search your Tampa Bay neighborhood to see the hurricane flood risk