Clean air is not just for the rich and the rural. Everyone should be able to take a deep breath without wondering whether the fetid air is sickening them. Mothers shouldn’t be afraid to let their kids play in the front yard. Schools shouldn’t have to cut short recess. All the more reason to double down on efforts to figure out what’s causing the mystery smell in the Childs Park neighborhood of St. Petersburg. How hard is it to locate the source of a foul odor, one that has plagued a neighborhood for decades? Apparently, harder than you’d think. In an absorbing and disturbing article, the Times’ Colleen Wright and Jack Evans recently chronicled how officials cannot seem to identify what’s causing the smell that so many residents in and near Childs Park have noticed for decades. No one is denying there is a smell — similar to jet fuel, a gas leak or fresh blacktop, depending on who’s doing the sniffing. It comes and goes, lingering long enough to burn nostrils and turn stomachs. As for the source, officials so far have only hunches and suspicions. Childs Park has a small industrial corridor south of the Pinellas Trail, which includes a precast concrete maker, a seafood distributor and a non-operational fuel terminal. Howco Environmental Services has recycled oil at its site in the corridor for more than 40 years, a process that releases volatile organic compounds, a broad range of smelly gases that include industrial emissions. Howco says it uses air strippers to limit the release of the compounds. Like the other companies in the industrial corridor, Howco says it’s not the source of the smell. An official with the Pinellas County Air Quality Division told the Times that businesses in the corridor were in compliance with state and federal regulations. So the mystery continues — and the complaints pile up. A woman who owns a home near the industrial corridor found black smudges on her cabinets, fridge, clothes, walls and ceiling that an inspector said could be stains from “aerosolized oil droplets from the facility near the home.” City Council member Lisa Wheeler-Bowman left the neighborhood, concerned for her family’s health. The smell has forced Fairmount Park Elementary to cut short recess. Another time, school employees complained of a gas smell in the hallways during dismissal. In that case, the county dispatched an inspector to investigate Howco — 13 days after the complaints. Surprise — by then the smell was gone. “This is not normal,” said Brother John Muhammad, president of the Childs Park neighborhood association. “It shouldn’t be normal.” That’s the truth. Childs Park is one of the city’s lower-income neighborhoods. You’d be forgiven for wondering whether that fact has something to do with why this decades-old mystery remains a mystery. If such an unwanted, enigmatic and fetid guest beset a tonier part of town, say Snell Isle or the Old Northeast, would it have taken so long to identify the culprit and return the air quality back to something more pleasant? The good news is that community researchers from the University of South Florida, St. Petersburg College and Eckerd College are looking into the problem. They are asking residents about health concerns, issuing personal air monitors and planning to place other measuring equipment in the neighborhood. Gathering and analyzing all the information, however, could take months or years. In the meantime, the putrid visitor will settle in again and again. The Pinellas County Air Quality Division official said she “would try to have a nose in the area a little more frequently.” That’s not good enough, and St. Petersburg’s leaders should make that clear to the county, if they haven’t already. This issue has gone on too long and affects too many people. It’s long past time to determine where the smell is coming from and whether it’s harmful to residents. After all, this isn’t like trying to locate Plato’s fictional Atlantis or Florida’s mythical Skunk Ape. The smell is real, and it’s coming from somewhere. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.