No compromise Here is a fair compromise on abortion | Letter, May 15 I have a better compromise on abortion: Let the woman make the decision about her body. You can’t harvest organs from a corpse without the permission of the person or their loved ones, even if it is to save a life. You can’t force people to donate organs, tissue, bone marrow, blood, even if to save a life. Why should there have to be a compromise at all? It’s best said in the words of my father: It’s Nun-ya. As in, it’s Nun-ya business. Irene Ferris, Clearwater Not a lone wolf They were murdered by white supremacy | Column, May 17 Mass shooters aren’t just “lone wolves.” Young males and the unbalanced are vulnerable to extreme messages. These murderers are acting on clear signals to grab a gun or make a bomb to save your kin group. Long ago, miners carried caged canaries, which were the first to drop in a toxic gas leak. Mass shooters are society’s canaries. They are well attuned to the values we espouse, and the actions demanded of them. They take to heart the hate, prejudice and fear now commonly expressed among the right. To stop violence, we must convey the truth against hate, racial prejudice and fear, and carry the message that violence is wrong, no matter what. Christopher McDermott, St Augustine Up to voters Who will actually do something about unending gun violence? | Letter, May 17 I have a thought for the letter writer who laments, “Who in government has the spine to make a difference in gun control?” It’s where is the spine of the voters? When will we, the people, start voting out the clowns who support more guns? Carlo Minieri, Redington Shores Stuck with the bill Few know about reports | May 18 So wait, in a state run entirely by Republicans since forever in political years, that hasn’t had a major hurricane since 2018, home insurance companies are apparently sending millions to their parent companies and going bankrupt to the detriment of homeowners who are dunned to cover the cost. The state is years behind on evaluations of why and doesn’t share those reports anyway. But we’re making laws on two days’ notice that restrict free speech? Pat Ward, St. Petersburg Price of admission DeSantis says Florida may take over Disney’s special district It seems appropriate that the state of Florida take over Disney World since we have a Mickey Mouse Legislature led by a Mickey Mouse governor. The price for admission, however, is going to be passed on to the taxpayers. Peter Castelli, Tampa