ANAHEIM, Calif. — The Rays saw plenty of Shohei Ohtani in Monday’s series opener, as he hit two home runs in the Angels’ 11-3 win, including his first professional grand slam. Wednesday afternoon they will get the full Ohtani experience, as the two-way star from Japan is scheduled to be the starting pitcher and is in the Angels lineup as the DH. And the Rays are getting Ohtani when he has been on a roll, coming off a dominant start Thursday at Boston (seven shutout innings, 11 strikeouts) with his bat heating up. Rays manager Kevin Cash said he joins with Angels counterpart Joe Maddon and other long-time observers in marveling at what Ohtani has done, while trying to put it in the proper context. “We’re seeing something that we’ve never seen,” Cash said Monday. “I don’t know anybody that would say, ‘Oh, in five years, we’ll see it again. In 10 years, we’ll see it again.’ I don’t think anybody feels that convicted. So we should be appreciating it quite a bit, because he’s a really special talent.” Corey Kluber, the 12-year veteran who at times has been among the game’s top starting pitchers, also is in awe, particularly over how Ohtani can put in the work necessary to be so good in both roles. “From what I’ve heard, the discipline to do everything you need to do on a day-to-day basis is second to none,” he said. “That alone — I mean, preparing yourself to do one takes enough time. And then to do both of them and excel at both of them, not just to do it for the sake of doing it, but to be really good at both, too, is very impressive.” Cash joked about being partially to blame for the flexibility Maddon now has under the new rule for this year that allows Ohtani to stay in the game as the DH after he is done pitching. Cash pushed for Major League Baseball to make that change last July when he managed the American League team in the All-Star Game — knowing Ohtani would only pitch one inning and fans wanted to see him hit — and it was adopted starting this year for regular-season play. “Bad idea on my part,” Cash said. “At the time, I think everybody thought it was really good for baseball. He was the talk of baseball. Should have been the talk, he was the MVP. And there were a lot of fans there that wanted to see him do both. So I’m glad that it was allowed.” But now that his Rays have to face the dual threat? “Not a good idea on Wednesday.” Faucher down, Brujan up Reliever Calvin Faucher was sent back to Triple-A Durham after his rough Monday debut (five runs, one inning) and infielder/outfielder Vidal Brujan was called up. Brujan provides depth as outfielder Manuel Margot left Monday’s game with right hamstring tightness. Brujan, a switch hitter who can play just about anywhere, was hitting .300 at Durham with an .817 OPS. He started in rightfield Tuesday with Margot out of the lineup. Miscellany Cash said the Rays were impressed with the at-bats and defensive play of Isaac Paredes, the infielder acquired (for Austin Meadows) from Detroit, when he filled in during Ji-Man Choi’s 10 days on the injured list: “Looks like a baseball player.” … Wednesday’s game ends a stretch of playing 16 straight days (third longest of the season), with three of the next 12 days off. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.