If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. The Lightning cut a three-goal deficit to one in the third period before allowing two empty-net goals in a 5-2 loss to the Maple Leafs in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series Friday at Amalie Arena. The Leafs lead the best-of-seven series two games to one heading into Game 4 Sunday in Tampa. Morgan Rielly and Colin Blackwell scored in the first 10 minutes of the game and David Kampf found the back of the net just under six minutes into the second period to stake Toronto to a 3-0 lead. Ross Colton put the Lightning on the board with a power-play goal with nine minutes remaining in the period, and Ondrej Palat made it a one-goal game with more than 14 minutes remaining. Tampa Bay continued to pressure the Toronto net the rest of the way, but Jack Campbell stood tall in net and Ilya Mikheyev scored twice into an empty net to seal the win for the Maple Leafs. Here’s how it happened: Third period Brandon Hagel shot blocked by TJ Brodie Anthony Cirelli backhand shot stopped by Jack Campbell Victor Hedman slap shot saved by Campbell Lightning ice the puck Mark Giordano shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Vasilevskiy fights off Auston Matthews shot off the rush Vasilevskiy stops Matthews twice on a breakaway Mitch Marner hits the crossbar Campbell stops Nikita Kucherov on a breakaway LIGHTNING GOAL! Ondrej Palat scores with 14:17 remaining to make it a one-goal game. Leafs lead 3-2. Pierre-Edouard Bellemare shot deflected up out of play Nick Paul draws a hooking penalty against Jake Muzzin with a power move to the net that Jack Campbell had to do everything in his power to keep out of the net Jack Campbell dives to his right to stop a Stamkos shot from the right circle after Kucherov threads a pass across the ice to the Lightning captain Campbell stops Hedman shot from the high slot Vasilevskiy stops Mikheyev on a breakaway with Hedman on his heels Campbell stops Hagel rebound attempt from the slot after quick Colton shot from the corner Lightning pull Vasilevskiy in favor of an extra attacker MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Mikheyev scores into an empty net after a pass from Kucherov is too far up the middle for a diving Stamkos. Leafs lead 4-2. Lightning again pull Vasilevskiy Matthews shoots wide, resulting in an icing call Engvall misses the empty net MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Mikheyev scores a second empty-net goal. Leafs lead 5-2. Second period Erik Cernak in the penalty box for roughing Justin Holl at end of first period Lightning get a breakaway after Mitch Marner falls down, but Jack Campbell gets a piece of Pierre-Edouard Bellemare’s shot from the top of the left circle Ryan McDonagh penalized for delay of game, giving Toronto a 5-on-3 advantage for 25 seconds Anthony Cirelli faceoff win allows Lightning to clear the puck out of the zone Maple Leafs now have 5-on-4 for a minute and a half Pressure from Erik Cernak allows the Lightning to clear the zone Alex Killorn gets the puck out of the zone Jack Campbell stops Brandon Hagel shorthanded opportunity Jason Spezza shot from left side deflected by Ondrej Palat Vasilevskiy covers Spezza slap shot from right point Lightning kill off both penalties Campbell makes save on Mikhail Sergachev shot from the left point with Stamkos in front Point spin-around shot from near the goal line stopped by Campbell MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: David Kampf wrist shot beats Vasilevskiy stickside after Brandon Hagel pass for Ross Colton is picked off in the neutral zone. Leafs lead 3-0. Point turnaround shot from low in the left circle is partially blocked Justin Holl penalized for holding Brandon Hagel, who got inside position on a breakaway Maple Leafs win the faceoff and clear the puck out of the zone Toronto gets the puck out again and nearly scores when Marner gets two chances from in close on the forecheck. Vasilevskiy keeps the puck out of the goal with a couple of pad saves A Maple Leafs turnover creates a Lightning chance in front, but Toronto manages to clear the puck LIGHTNING GOAL! Ross Colton scores a power-play goal on a one-timer from the right circle after a nice pas from Mikhail Sergachev. Leafs lead 3-1. Maple Leafs get a power play after Ondrej Palat penalized for boarding after hitting a defenseless Ondrej Kase from behind Marner shot misses wide Vasilevskiy stops Nylander quick shot from the slot Cirelli clears the puck around the boards and down the ice Matthews one-timer from the left circle misses wide and goes back down the ice Lightning kill the Palat penalty Campbell makes save on Stamkos shot from the right circle Colton shot rides up high on Campbell, but the goaltender is able to stop it Campbell stops tight shot from Colton Colton hits the left post with a wide-open net in front of him after TJ Brodie gets a stick on it Nylander shot saved by Vasilevskiy Campbell makes a couple of saves after Corey Perry leads a rush up the ice Cernak blast from the right point blocked by Jake Muzzin, who appears to injure his arm Campbell robs Cirelli from in close (Toronto leads 3-1 after two periods) First period Jack Campbell saves shot by Brayden Point in the slot after Anthony Cirelli forces turnover with hard hit in the corner Andrei Vasilevskiy covers the puck after backhand shot by Ondrej Kase Lightning ice the puck Pat Maroon penalized for delay of game after shooting the puck over the glass while trying to get it out of the Tampa Bay zone, and Toronto gets its first power play Vasilevskiy makes pad save on bouncing shot from Mitch Marner Auston Matthews shot stopped by Vasilevskiy Alex Killorn clears the puck out of the zone MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Morgan Rielly scores a power-play goal, rebounding an Auston Matthews shot from the blue line into a wide-open net.  Maple Leafs lead 1-0. (4:52) After a period of sustained pressure in the Toronto zone, Ilya Lyubushkin is penalized for high-sticking, putting the Lightning on the power play Leafs immediately clear the puck out of the zone Toronto sends the puck back down the ice Ilya Mikheyev skates the puck out of the Maple Leafs zone Toronto wins a defensive-zone faceoff and clears the puck out of the zone Leafs kill the penalty MAPLE LEAFS: Colin Blackwell scores from the lower left circle seconds on a 3-on-2 after the power play expires. Leafs lead 2-0. (9:44) Zach Bogosian penalized for holding the stick Nick Paul sends the puck out of the Lightning zone Auston Matthews shot from the left side stopped by Vasilevskiy Vasilevskiy stops a Spezza shot from the right circle and a rebound attempt from the left side Cirelli shot off the rush blocked William Nylander shot from left circle saved by Vasilevskiy Brayden Point chance from the slot stopped by Campbell Campbell smothers Nick Paul wrist shot from the high slot Mikheyev shot from the right side knocked aside by Vasilevskiiy Steven Stamkos tips Zach Bogosian shot wide of the net Maple Leafs ice the puck Point backhander from low in the left circle stopped by Campbell Brandon Hagel gets up the ice with speed and drops a pass for Paul, whose shot from the high slot is stopped by Campbell Lightning ice the puck Marner shot hits Vasilevskiy in the shoulder Backhander by Bunting misses wide Killorn drives into Holl as time expires in the period (Toronto leads 2-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report Remember how you felt after the Lightning’s loss in Game 1? That’s how Maple Leafs fans feel today. The team that looked out of its league in Game 1 suddenly looked dominant in Game 2. Something lost, something gained. Settle in for a long series. That’s the beauty of the NHL playoffs: One bad night doesn’t sink a season, any more than one good one saves it. When a team has to beat an opponent four times over seven games to advance, the better team usually will come out on top. Or at least have every opportunity to do so. And both of these teams have reason to feel good about themselves entering Game 3 tonight in Tampa. The two-time defending Stanley Cup champion Lightning picked up their tempo in Game 2, established their forecheck, won puck battles, fixed their zone entries on the power play and saw their stars get involved for the first time in the series. Defenseman Victor Hedman put together his first career four-point game, including a late first-period goal that gave Tampa Bay its first goal and lead of the series. Nikita Kucherov had three points to help spark a power play that went 3-for-7. Brayden Point, who scored more goals than any other NHL player the past two postseasons, scored for the first time in the series. The Lightning killed off all four of their penalties, including two in the first period that kept the Maple Leafs from pulling ahead and another late that became a two-man advantage when Toronto pulled goaltender Jack Campbell in favor of an extra attacker. Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy flashed the form that won him the Conn Smythe Trophy last postseason, challenging shooters, taking away angles and stopping 31 of 34 shots. Meanwhile, the Maple Leafs, coming off the best regular season in franchise history, scored two late goals to take some of the sting out of the loss after falling behind by four early in the third period. Mitch Marner scored his second goal of the series, and Michael Bunting found the back of the net in his first game back after missing four with a knee injury. NHL goal-scoring leader Auston Matthews contributed two assists, though he was held without a goal after scoring two in Game 1 and five over his previous two games against the Lightning. So, we find ourselves back where we started, with the series tied as it moves to Amalie Arena for Games 3 and 4. Will Tampa Bay build on the momentum it built in Game 2, or will Toronto take back control? Follow our live coverage, starting at 7:30 p.m., as the Lightning hope to take their first lead in the series. Game day scene • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.