SEATTLE — There’s something about Manny. Outfielder Manuel Margot has been a solid hitter for the Rays since being acquired from the Padres during spring training 2020, but he has become one of their most clutch producers this season. He did it again late Friday night (around 1:20 a.m. Tampa Bay time), hitting a three-run homer in the ninth to turn around a 6-5 deficit and lead the Rays, despite one more Seattle scare, to an 8-7 win. That was the fifth time in Margot’s 22 games this season that he delivered the winning RBI, matching San Diego’s Manny Machado for second most in the majors behind Angels outfielder Taylor Ward’s six. And it was the third time this season (and second in three days), Margot delivered a go-ahead run from the eighth inning on, and the eighth in his career. “He’s been in a lot of those situations, and he’s got a lot of hard-hit balls in those kinds of situations,” teammate Randy Arozarena said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “We always hope, anytime he comes up, hopefully he does something well so that we can hopefully get the win when he does.” Margot laughed when asked about teammates calling him “Mar-go-ahead” for clutch hits, but said there are several keys to his success. One is is always being prepared to contribute. Especially on a day like Friday, which was looking like an off-day as he wasn’t in the lineup. But he went into the game in the eighth inning as a defensive replacement, then came up in the key situation in the ninth. “You’ve got to be ready,” he said, via Navarro. Another factor is being relaxed at the plate, not trying too hard, or doing too much. And being willing to battle. “Just try to be competitive out there,” Margot said. “I just try to compete as much as I can, and ideally — you don’t know what’s going to happen in situations like that — but as long as you just stay (in) there, I think you can be OK.” Overall, Margot has been doing a lot well. He went into play Saturday night with hits in each of the first six May games, with a .455 average (10-for-22) and eight RBIs to show for it. Homecoming for Mike Zunino Catcher Mike Zunino was born and raised in southwest Florida, went to college and makes his offseason home in Gainesville, and has —very happily — played the last four seasons with the Rays. But he still has roots and fans in Seattle, where he played the first six years of his career and has homered at least once in each return visit. “The fans have been great,” he said. “There’s been a lot of time here, a lot of games. So to be able to see some fans, hear some people yell and try to get my attention, it’s great. There was a lot of growing up, a lot of history here for me, so it’s nice to come back and still hear fans cheer for me here.” Miscellany Players will be using pink bats, batting gloves, cleats and other equipment Sunday for Mother’s Day. ... Sunday’s game will air on Bally Sports Florida due to Lightning coverage on Bally Sports Sun. … During the three-game series that starts Monday, the Angels will join the Rays in wearing green ribbons to recognize mental health awareness month and honor bullpen catcher Jean Ramirez, who died by suicide in January. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.