Disney then and now What would Walt think? | Column, May 1 I think that Cal Thomas missed the point when he advised today’s Disney leadership to follow the example of its founder and stay out of politics. What I found striking was how he cited the many political involvements by Walt Disney for conservative causes. I wonder how anything that the Disney leaders have done now is even comparable to what its founder had once done. Walt Disney endorsed political candidates several times. Present-day Disney certainly hasn’t done that. All it did was announce opposition to a law that adversely affected its employees. The company was subjected to political retribution by a governor who feels any dissent from his edicts must be made an example of. Seemingly, we have a future tyrant in the making serving as Florida’s governor. To make it even more dangerous is that polls show Gov. Ron DeSantis is favored to win reelection, so obviously what he is doing is OK with Floridians. Maybe Mickey Mouse does need to express some moral outrage at what is going on here, but I’m not going to hold my breath waiting. Rene Tamargo, Tampa Skip the politics What would Walt think? | Column, May 1 I was very grateful for Cal Thomas’ column on Walt Disney. My husband and I and many of our friends have been very concerned about the pattern of Walt Disney not being followed by current Disney leadership. Many other people have expressed to us that the current Disney leadership should follow the vision and example of Walt Disney in his dream to have Disney be the “magic Kingdom” and not engage in politics that will lead to tarnishing the Disney brand. We need to stay the course and hold to Walt Disney’s goals. Keep the Magic Avis Chaplick, Lutz Will it be banned? Harvard’s history with slavery reveals an ugly truth about America | Column, April 30 This column by Eugene Robinson was honest, insightful and instructional; expect it to be banned in the next Florida legislative session. Ed Bradley, Boynton Beach The right prescription Activists mobilize as Biden weighs student debt | May 1 If the Democrats and President Joe Biden hope to “buy” young votes by canceling some student debt, they may be sadly mistaken. Young voter turnout is usually low to dismal. The real way to get votes would be to give older Americans $10,000 to $50,000 for medical debt. Steve J. Sarang, Clearwater