ST. PETERSBURG — May has been tough on Wander Franco, who went into Saturday afternoon’s game against the Yankees just 18-for-85 for the month, his .212 average a considerable dropoff from his .313 April. Franco said he is continuing to work his way through the extended slump, and Rays manager Kevin Cash said he remains confident the star shortstop will get hot again quickly. “I expect Wander to break out of whatever he’s going through just about every at-bat he goes up there,” Cash said. “He’s so talented that he’ll find ways to navigate through this.” Veteran outfielder Manuel Margot has provided Franco, 21 and in his first full big-league season, some counsel. “I always try to help him out,” Margot said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I always try to tell him to be smiling a little bit more, don’t be so frustrated. “Even during the games, he asks me for some advice and I may not give him the advice that he wants or the information that he wants. (But) I just try to make sure that he has fun when he’s out there.” More specifically, Margot suggested Franco spend some time watching video. “A couple of things that I’ve said is look at some video of earlier in the season, see what was going good and what is going bad so that you can hopefully make an adjustment where it needs to be,” he said. Cash said the support can help. “I see Manny having a conversation with him quite a bit,” Cash said. “Mentor? Maybe. But I think Wander, he’s his own man and he’s going to learn a lot more just with experiences. But his teammates certainly are very supportive of him and all the guys that are maybe scuffling a little bit.” Margot, meanwhile, went into play Saturday with a career-high 14-game hitting streak, longest for a Ray since Austin Meadows had 16 in 2019, and five shy of Jason Bartlett’s team record set in 2009. Margot said he doesn’t pay too much attention: “I try not to look at it. I don’t want to be thinking about it too much. So I just like go out there put in the work and that’s what’s going to give me the result.” Should it be McClanahan with a K? Not only has Shane McClanahan expanded his repertoire and pitched better overall, but he learned to throw more strikes in the big leagues than he did in the minors, evidenced by his majors co-leading 74 strikeouts. The change was as much in mentality as anything else. “You just get really tired of walking people,” he said. “To be blunt with you, it just frustrated me. I was really sick of the notion, ‘He doesn’t throw strikes, he’s going to be a bullpen arm.’ It makes you work a little harder.” McClanahan starts Sunday against the Yankees, having gone 0-2, 5.84 in three previous outings. Miscellany After playing catch Friday and Saturday, reliever Andrew Kittredge said his previously tight back feels much better. He plans to resume throwing off the mound Sunday, pitch in a rehab game or two and return on or around Friday, when eligible. … Starter Luis Patino (oblique) threw a bullpen session Saturday and will advance to live batting practice Wednesday. ... Ahead of Saturday’s expected sellout crowd of 25,025, Cash said: “We like the fans’ support. Hopefully that’ll energize us a little bit and see if we can get the offense rolling.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.