TAMPA — Tom Brady is “back to work” and throwing footballs at an undisclosed location in Florida. Spoiler alert: Though he spent the weekend attending a Formula 1 race in Miami with Dolphins owner Stephen Ross, Brady was wearing a Bucs helmet in his workout photos. There is no expectation that Brady, who is getting ready for a 23rd NFL season, will attend the Bucs’ organized team activities, which begin on May 17. In fact, it’s likely his first official workout this season will be during the mandatory minicamp June 7-9. ‘’He and (head coach) Todd (Bowles) have had constant communication with that,” general manager Jason Licht said recently. “It’s voluntary right now. He’s going into his 23rd season. Obviously, he knows how to take care of himself during this voluntary portion. I know he and Todd have had several conversations about that. No worries whatsoever.” It’s already been a busy offseason for Brady, with his retirement announcement on Feb. 1 and his unretirement announcement on March 13. A couple weeks ago, Brady published a picture from the Hollywood set of “80 for Brady,” the movie he is making with co-stars Jane Fonda, Lilly Tomlin, Sally Field and Rita Moreno. Over the weekend, Brady chose to attend the Miami Grand Prix outside Hard Rock Stadium over the Kentucky Derby. He was joined by a host of celebrities, including other GOATS such as Michael Jordan, David Beckham and F1 driver Lewis Hamilton. Brady has a close relationship with Dolphins co-owner Bruce Beal, and there have been reports Brady was about to become a part owner of that team (and maybe play) for Sean Payton. But the Saints refused permission for the Dolphins to interview Payton, who stepped down in January. Then, former Dolphins head coach Brian Flores dropped a lawsuit on the NFL the same day Brady retired. All that matters to the Bucs and their fans is that Brady is back and ready to play for Bowles, who replaced Bruce Arians as head coach in late March. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.