I’m a pro-life Democrat Even if Roe stands, things have changed here | May 5 I am a proud pro-life Democrat who has long supported overturning Roe v. Wade. Since the Roe decision, more than 63 million abortions have been performed in our nation, a deeply troubling statistic that I believe is tantamount to infanticide. The “my body, my choice” mantra is a selfish one. A child is a blessing, and life is precious. Ours is a civilized society, and we should be protecting life, not wantonly stamping it out, on demand. Michael Mayo, St. Petersburg If men gave birth ... Even if Roe stands, things have changed here | May 5 What if men had the babies? Ever think about that? There would most likely be an abortion clinic on every street corner with the government covering the costs and any charges. As a woman, it is my body — and my accidentally fertilized egg — so in all fairness what I do about it is my private business. A fertilized egg is not a baby. Since we are telling others what to do with their bodies, let’s pass a law that every man who is not paying his child support must be sterilized. Dot Clark, Apollo Beach Trump’s strengths Election 2022: JD Vance wins Ohio’s GOP Senate primary | May 5 Whenever someone tells me that Donald Trump is too brash or crude, I like to make the following analogy. Trump is the curt surgeon who rushes into your hospital room, gruffly introduces himself, asks if you have any questions, hurriedly answers them and rushes out the door. Joe Biden is the smiling, kind gentleman who sits on your bed, sniffs your hair, holds your hand and says, “Not to worry, I’ve been doing this a very long time.” When he leaves the room, you feel reassured and that everything will be all right. With Trump, you are waking up after two hours of surgery. With Biden, your family has to plan your funeral. Charles Michael Sitero, Ormond Beach Following their leader Will Florida’s Republican Legislature ban abortion? | May 4 What will Florida’s Legislature do about abortion? I believe Republican legislators will do whatever Gov. Ron DeSantis tells them to do. Carol Hess, Hudson