If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Corey Perry scored on the power play, and the Lightning lead the Panthers 1-0 in the second period of Game 2 of their second-round playoff series at FLA Live Arena in Sunrise. Perry, from the slot, redirected a Steven Stamkos shot past goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky just over 12 minutes into the game. The Lightning, leading the series 1-0, hope to take a two-game lead before the series moves to Tampa for Games 3 and 4. Follow our live updates throughout the game: Second period Nick Paul shot kicked out by Sergei Bobrovsky Bobrovsky blocks Alex Killorn shot from the slot Aaron Ekblad blast from the right circle blocked by Steven Stamkos, who skates to the bench in pain and heads to the locker room at the end of his shift Ekblad shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy Ekblad again stopped by Andrei Vasilevskiy Pierre-Edouard Bellemare penalized for tripping, and the Panthers get their first power play Cernak is back on the ice Ekblad shot from the center point gloved by Vasilevskiy Jonathan Huberdeau shot tipped wide by Claude Giroux Lightning clear the puck Sam Bennett steals the puck from Ondrej Palat but Lightning get it back out of their zone Lightning kill the penalty First period Patric Hornqvist hits Ondrej Palat Patric Hornqvist shot saved by Andrei Vasilevskiy MacKenzie Weegar hits Corey Perry Gustav Forsling shot doesn’t get to the net Anthony Cirelli hits Forsling Forsling shot misses the net Brandon Montour hits Palat Montour blocks shot by Palat Montour hits Palat Sam Reinhart hits Palat Ryan Lomberg backhander saved by Vasilevskiy Ross Colton hits Ben Chiarot Cal Foote shot deflected up into the stands Sergei Bobrovsky stops Pat Maroon shot from left circle after pass from Nikita Kucherov sent Maroon in on a 2-on-1 Bobrovsky saves Cirelli shot from the left circle Claude Giroux pass for Carter Verhaeghe broken up Brandon Hagel shot saved by Bobrovsky Palat shot blocked Brandon Montour penalized for hooking, and the Lightning get their first power play with 8:31 left in period LIGHTNING GOAL! Corey Perry, in the slot, tips a Steven Stamkos shot from the left circle over Bobrovsky’s glove. Lightning 1, Panthers 0. Bobrovsky makes a stick save on Hagel blast from the right circle Verhaeghe shot from the left circle blocked by Cernak Forsling shot rides up Cernak’s stick and hits him in the face Cernak, bent over, leaves the ice holding a glove to his face after being hit high up face; Sergachev left for the locker room earlier (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report Most hockey observers would agree that last season’s opening-round series between the Lightning and Panthers was the most exciting of the 2021 postseason. Exciting back-and-forth action. High-scoring theatrics. Intense physical battles. Game 1 of the second-round series between the teams Tuesday in Sunrise offered little in the way of similar entertainment value. But the Lightning got just the outcome they wanted in a 4-1 win. Knowing better than to get into a track meet with high-flying Florida, Tampa Bay slowed the Panthers through the neutral zone, got bodies in front of shots (blocking 16) and played with discipline, mostly staying out of the penalty box. The Lightning scored three power-play goals, and Nikita Kucherov provided one of the few highlight-reel plays with an inside-outside move on defenseman Aaron Ekblad before setting up Corey Perry for the tying goal late in the second period. Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy was his usual dependable self in net, stopping 33 of 34 shots, and Pierre-Edouard Bellemare, Kucherov and Ross Colton added third-period goals as Tampa Bay pulled away down the stretch. While it’s possible the intensity could pick up as the series moves along, the Lightning seem to have found a formula that works for them, and it doesn’t involve putting up big numbers on the scoreboard. With Brayden Point out of the lineup with a lower-body injury, Kucherov stepped up into the starring role, the “School Bus Line” of Perry, Bellemare and Pat Maroon chipped in with a couple of goals and the Lightning went with an 11-forward, 7-defensemen lineup, which proved fortuitous when they were down to five D-men at one point in the second period. Point likely will be out again tonight for Game 2, but defenseman Erik Cernak is expected to be back after missing more than 26 minutes of Game 1 after blocking a shot. Panthers forward Mason Marchment, who missed Tuesday’s game, likely will remain out, while forward Carter Verhaeghe will be a game-time decision. Follow our live updates, starting at 7 p.m., as the Lightning aim to jump out to a two-game lead in the best-of-seven series. Game day scene • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.