Will the power go out? How long will the food and water last? How bad is it going to get? Hurricane season is here, and Tampa Bay residents may find themselves asking these questions over and over again during the six-month season — especially when it peaks in August through October. While the region hasn’t suffered a direct hit since the 1921 Tampa Bay hurricane, residents never know what the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic has in store for them. Experts say the threat of flooding and property damage — on top of COVID-19 — can create significant stress, particularly for those with a history of anxiety and depression. But just like you can get your home ready for a storm, you can also take steps to protect your mental health. Here are four ways you can fortify yourself during hurricane season: Get ready for the storm now Don’t wait until the last minute to get your home ready, check for your evacuation zone and look for the closest evacuation shelters. You should also map exit routes in advance and assemble and back up important documents and photos online. Make sure you have a 30-day supply of medication and seven days of food and water per person. (Don’t forget to get your pet ready, too.) The Tampa Bay Times hurricane prep guide (tampabay.com/hurricane) can help you get ready. It doesn’t cost a lot of money to get ready for a storm, so don’t let that stress you out. You can back up your important documents and photos using free cloud services and write in advance a list of valuable possessions you’ll want to take with you. And remember, evacuation shelters are free and also provide meals. “People often feel much better when they have plans of action. Where anxiety really spikes is when you’re caught off guard,” said Clara Reynolds, president and CEO of the Crisis Center of Tampa Bay. Don’t obsessively check weather updates You can only be so informed. Once you’re done with your hurricane preparations, repeatedly checking the news or refreshing social media feeds for the latest updates will only make you overthink a situation you cannot control, Reynolds said. Identify a trustworthy source for tracking the storm and check for updates at predetermined times in the day. Reynolds suggests spending the rest of that time disconnecting from the internet and focusing on calming activities, such as reading or playing board games, to take your mind off the weather. Check on the kids For children who find comfort in following routine, the uncertainty of an oncoming storm may induce anxiety. That’s okay, Reynolds said, just make sure children know they aren’t alone. ”Talk about the fact that you’re scared or anxious so your little person knows that those feelings are normal,” Reynolds said. Remember to get them ready for a storm, too. For babies that means getting their supplies ready: diapers, blankets, wipes, baby food, clean bottles and formula. (Even if you breastfeed, bring a week’s worth of powdered formula, just in case.) Older children will also need clothes, kid-friendly canned goods and things to do, like books, cards, board games or paper and markers to keep them occupied. Reach out to a mental health professional If you feel overwhelmed during a storm, you can still get help. The U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration has a 24/7 Disaster Distress Helpline and crisis counselors available to anyone affected by a natural or manmade disaster. English and Spanish speakers can call or text the helpline at 1-800-985-5990 or go to disasterdistress.samhsa.gov. The deaf and hard of hearing can connect directly with someone who uses American Sign Language 24/7 by clicking the “ASL Now” button at disasterdistress.samhsa.gov or calling 1-800-985-5990 from their video phone. The helpline can also connect callers with counselors in more than 100 languages through interpreters. Trained specialists are available to talk callers through emotional distress, connect them with local resources or answer general questions about disaster preparation. Callers will find out how to recognize stress, how it affects individuals and families and give tips for healthy coping. Floridians make up 10 percent of the helpline’s call volume during hurricane season, said agency spokesperson Christopher Garrett. If you need help Mental health resources Domestic violence shelters • • • 2021 Tampa Bay Times hurricane guide IT’S STORM SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane THE TRUTH IS OUT THERE: Seven hurricane myths that need to go away BACK-UP YOUR DATA: Protect your data, documents and photos BUILD YOUR HURRICANE KIT: Gear up — and mask up — before the storm hits PROTECT YOUR PETS: Here’s how to keep your pets as safe as you NEED TO KNOW: Click here to find your evacuation zone and shelter • • • Rising Threat: A special report on flood risk and climate change PART 1: The Tampa Bay Times partnered with the National Hurricane Center for a revealing look at future storms. PART 2: Even weak hurricanes can cause huge storm surges. Experts say people don’t understand the risk. PART 3: Tampa Bay has huge flood risk. What should we do about it? INTERACTIVE MAP: Search your Tampa Bay neighborhood to see the hurricane flood risk