The Lightning will face the Maple Leafs in the playoffs for the first time in franchise history when the opening round gets underway Monday in Toronto. The Atlantic Division rivals split their four games this season, with Tampa Bay picking up five of a possible eight points thanks to an overtime loss. While the Lightning have their sights set on a third straight Stanley Cup, the Maple Leafs seek their first playoff series win in 19 seasons, having failed to advance out of the opening round in their past six postseason appearances. But that isn’t to say that Toronto doesn’t present problems for Tampa Bay. Here are five players to keep an eye on. Auston Matthews, center Matthews is a frontrunner for the Hart Trophy, awarded to the NHL’s Most Valuable Player, after becoming the first player to reach the 60-goal mark since the Lightning’s Steven Stamkos in 2011-12. Matthews’ 106 points tied Stamkos for sixth-most in the league. Matthews is a high-volume shooter, as his 348 shots on goal were a league-high. Memorable moment: Matthews scored his 60th goal of the season against the Red Wings on April 27. Against the Lightning: Three goals and seven points (including a hat trick in an April 4 win) in three games Of note: Matthews missed three games near the end of the season — including April 21 against the Lightning — due to an undisclosed injury. He returned to play the Panthers on April 23 before sitting out the regular-season finale against the Bruins. Jack Campbell, goaltender Campbell, who started 47 games this season, is expected to be in net for Toronto in Game 1. He went 31-9-6 this season, with a .914 save percentage and 2.64 goals-against average. His five shutouts were three more than Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy. Memorable moment: Campbell made an incredible save during a Jan. 8 game against Colorado, stopping two chances from in close before diving to his right and snagging the puck out of the air to rob Devon Toews of an almost certain goal. Against the Lightning: 2-1 in three starts with a 2.33 GAA and .918 save percentage Of note: Campbell has only played in only one previous playoff series.. He started all seven games of an opening-round series against the Canadiens last season, stopping 171 of 184 shots shots (.934 save percentage), as the Leafs blew a three-games-to-one lead to the eventual Stanley Cup finalist. Mitch Marner, right wing As if the Maple Leafs’ first line doesn’t already have plenty of firepower with Matthews, Marner adds another dangerous element. His 97 points (35 goals and 62 assists) were second on the team to Matthews. Like Matthews and Campbell, Marner sat out the last game of the regular season against the Bruins to rest for the opening round. Memorable moment: Marner had a spectacular spin-o-rama goal against the Golden Knights in February. Grabbing the puck at the bottom of the right faceoff circle, he rotated his body as he moved in front of the crease and backhanded a shot past goaltender Robin Lehner. Against the Lightning: One goal and four assists in three games Of note: Marner can be one of the most dynamic playmakers on the ice, but the Canadiens limited his effectiveness in last season’s playoff series, holding him to 19 shots on goal and four assists. He has not scored in his past 18 postseason games. Jake Muzzin, defenseman Muzzin recently returned from long-term injured reserve after sustaining two concussions earlier this season, then missed six of the final eight games of the regular season with an undisclosed injury. Though he won’t be 100 percent for the playoffs, Muzzin, who had three goals and 11 assists in 47 games, “means a lot to our team,” coach Sheldon Keefe said. Memorable moment: Muzzin doesn’t score many goals, but he has a shot that can do some damage. Such was the case on Feb. 14, when he blasted a shot from the top of the right circle past Kraken goaltender Chris Driedger. Against the Lightning: One assist and minus-two plus/minus rating in two games Of note: Muzzin is one of two players on the Maple Leafs’ roster with a Stanley Cup ring. He and Kyle Clifford both won a Cup with the Kings in 2014 (Clifford won another L.A. in 2012). John Tavares, center Though he no longer scores as often as in his Islanders heyday, Tavares’ 49 assists this season were one shy of his career high. Add 27 goals, and the Maple Leafs captain continues to produce at nearly a point-per-game pace, with 76 points in 79 games, fifth-most in his 13 seasons and most since his 88 in 2018-19.. Memorable moment: Tavares broke a 14-game goal drought with a power-play goal March 5 against the Canucks. Against the Lightning: One goal and two assists in four games Of note: Tavares’ 14-game drought (Jan. 31-March 2) was his longest stretch without a goal in more than a decade, going back to his league debut in 2009-10 (17 games). Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.