TAMPA — Only two weeks ago, USF football coach Jeff Scott had no on-campus men’s sports peer in terms of roster replenishment via the NCAA transfer portal. But Brian Gregory, with Rich Strike resurgence, has made a furious charge down the spring’s final stretch. By the end of this bustling offseason, women’s basketball coach Jose Fernandez almost certainly will own local portal supremacy (more on his acquisitions at another time). But his men’s counterpart has pulled off a couple of modest coups lately. Gregory secured his third prominent Division I transfer in a month when 6-foot-6 South Carolina forward Keyshawn Bryant pledged to the Bulls late last week. A starter in 17 contests for the Gamecocks last season, Bryant (8.8 ppg, 4.1 rpg), who starred at Winter Haven High, has a year of eligibility remaining. “Offensively, he’s tremendous in the open court and uses his athletic ability to score off the bounce and attack the basket from the mid-range,” Gregory said in a statement announcing Bryant’s arrival. “He’s strong on the offensive glass, and defensively, his speed and athleticism allow him to affect the game in many areas. He’s a shot blocker and uses his length to get deflection and steals.” Bryant joins guards Tyler Harris (Memphis) and Selton Miguel (Kansas State) as new Bulls additions since 2021-2022 points/assists leader Caleb Murphy entered the portal in early April. Murphy reportedly pledged to DePaul late last week. Bryant, Harris and Miguel all were four-star prospects out of high school, and significant contributors at their previous programs, begging the question of whether Gregory has pulled even with Scott in the portal sweepstakes. Of course, there’s a proportional consideration. Scott has added 13 Division I-A transfers since the end of the 2021 season, accounting for more than 15 percent of the 2022 roster. And while some played significant roles at their previous programs last year (such as Baylor’s Gerry Bohanon), only three were deemed four-star prospects by a major recruiting service as high school seniors. All three of Gregory’s newcomers — which will account for 23 percent of his 2022-2023 roster — were deemed four stars by at least one major service. Moreover, all averaged at least 7.2 points and 19 minutes per game last season. Granted, a more bona fide assessment of these groups won’t be available until we see the newcomers’ impact on the field and court. But with portal season at a fever pitch in recent weeks, few can deny both Scott and Gregory have been spiking. USF men’s basketball transfers (Previous school in parentheses) G Tyler Harris (Memphis) G Selton Miguel (Kansas State) F Keyshawn Bryant (South Carolina) USF football Division I-A transfers (Previous school in parentheses) WR Ajou Ajou (Clemson)* DL Nick Bags (Temple) OL Derrell Bailey Jr. (Virginia Tech) QB Gerry Bohanon (Baylor) DB Aamaris Brown (Kansas State)* WR Khafre Brown (North Carolina) DL Rashad Cheney (Minnesota) RB Michel Dukes (Clemson) LB DJ Gordon IV (Minnesota)* DE Jatorian Hansford (Missouri) OL Mike Lofton (UCF)* OL Zach Perkins (Maryland)* DL Clyde Pinder Jr. (North Carolina)* S Ray Thornton III (Clemson) *-Played at a Pinellas or Hillsborough County high school • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.