The data startup company Manta announced it raised $35 million in Series B funding. Manta, which moved its U.S. headquarters to Tampa last month, secured the funding through a round led by Forestay Capital. Investors Bessemer Venture Partners, SAP.io, Senovo VC, Credo Ventures, Dan Fougere and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development participated, according to a media release. Prague-based Manta closed the funding round during a period of strong growth for the company. It has opened new offices in Lisbon, Portugal and Dublin, Ireland, bringing the total to five offices across North America and Europe with 150-plus employees worldwide. Manta is a data lineage company, which means it provides services for businesses to organize, track, scan and utilize the voluminous amounts of data that pass through their servers each day. “Data is among an organization’s most valuable assets, and Manta’s automated platform is transforming the way data is managed with a clear and comprehensive visualization of all data flows, saving customers time, money and resources,” said Marieke Christmann, senior principal at Forestay Capital in a statement. “We believe Manta is a truly transformative company, and we are excited to be part of Manta’s journey as it’s on its mission to transform complex data environments.” Manta has had a presence in Tampa for a while. In 2020, the startup closed a $13 million Series A fundraising round. At that time, two-thirds of its new hires came to Tampa. As of April, the company has about 40 employees in a WeWork space in downtown Tampa. “We are excited to welcome both new and existing investors to expand our capabilities as more companies recognize the true value of data lineage and observability,” said Tomas Kratky, Manata founder and CEO in a statement. “The funding enables us to continue our strong momentum by expanding our global presence and product development to help customers overcome blind spots in their increasingly complex data pipelines.”