Fungible freedom Sorting out abortion rights in a post-Roe America | PolitiFact, May 6 Many conservatives espouse support for the principle of freedom when it comes to wearing a mask or having a vaccination. But when it comes to having the freedom to have an abortion, that principle goes away. Whether you are for or against abortion, it seems to us that preserving the freedom to choose is more consistent with true democracy, especially where a clear majority of Americans favor it, and were it left to states, the resulting patchwork of health care would become a public health disaster for women. Drs. Bruce Shephard and David Lubin, Tampa Competing rights ‘It’s surreal’: Tampa Bay grapples with likely overturn of Roe v. Wade | May 5 Unlike the pundits and demonstrators, I have studied constitutional law for decades in my law practice and teaching. I actually read the entire draft opinion not just news about it. I agree with Justice Samuel Alito and many legal scholars (even those who support abortion rights) that Roe v. Wade had no foundation in the Constitution and judicial precedents interpreting the Constitution when it was decided in 1973. I also find that the legal analysis offered in Alito’s draft opinion, as he expressly states therein, will have no bearing on the constitutionality of gay marriage, interracial marriage, contraception, etc., as is being hysterically claimed by pundits and President Joe Biden. This is a red herring. The legal system cannot simultaneously protect two rights that are in direct opposition to each other. When abortion is illegal, tragically, many women die. When abortion is legal, tragically, all aborted fetuses die. Susie Hoeller, Lutz Problem solved Here’s one way Floridians could protect abortion rights | Editorial, May 3 Local services and infrastructure have been challenged. But now there is an easy way to restrict population growth. Restrict women’s rights. Young women — and men — are far less likely to migrate to a state that restricts the rights of women. These folks are not only of child-bearing age, but also at the age of economic productivity. If Florida’s government persists in restricting women’s rights, the state’s population growth will slow and so will its economic well being. What a convenient side-effect solution. Bruce LeBaron, St. Petersburg Calling Dr. Trump This pro-life Democrat supports ending Roe | Letter, May 6 A letter writer compares Donald Trump to a gruff but competent surgeon. To continue the analogy, surgeon Trump neglected to attend medical school. Jim Smith, St. Petersburg,