So, here’s the good news: Pat Maroon had a lazy pass intercepted at a critical moment. Woo hoo! Jan Rutta committed a senseless penalty that led to a 5-on-3 power play. Attaboy! Steven Stamkos misfired at a wide-open net that ended any thoughts of a comeback. Thank heavens! That’s it. That’s what you hang on to this morning. Either you believe the Lightning did themselves in with lethargy, brain farts and blunders on Monday night, or else you have to consider the possibility that Toronto really is a superior team. A far, far superior team. For there were few other silver linings in a 5-0 Game 1 loss at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto. The Lightning were slower, dumber and duller than the Maple Leafs in almost every phase of the game. “I’m not so sure the Maple Leafs had to play particularly well to beat us (Monday),” Lightning coach Jon Cooper told reporters at a postgame news conference. “When you’ve got to win four, you don’t want to give teams any freebies, and we probably gave them a little bit of a freebie (Monday).” We’ve seen something similar to this in other postseasons, but not quite at this level. The Lightning lost to the Islanders in Game 1 last season, and dropped the opener against Boston and Dallas in 2020. You might recall Tampa Bay ended both of those playoff runs by taking the Stanley Cup on a pleasure cruise. So, in a broad sense, a Game 1 loss on the road is neither shocking nor overly concerning. The Lightning have earned a lot of bankable credit the past two years and deserve the benefit of every single doubt. At least, until the puck drops in Game 2. Because, honestly, the narrative needs to change quickly. The one advantage the Lightning had coming into this series is they were the cool kids at the mall food court. They had Lord Stanley’s blessing. They had the numbers, the memories, the bling. They were everything the Maple Leafs have not been for a very long time. And, yet, by the end of the second period Monday night, it felt as if the script had flipped. Now, just to be clear, it’s no surprise Toronto won. The Maple Leafs were the higher seed and were the favorites in just about every betting and computer model. The shock is that it happened so easily. So completely. It was the first time in 50 playoff games dating back to 2018 the Lightning had been shut out. And that was after being on the power play for nearly 40 percent of the game’s first 33 minutes. Yet, somehow, they still found themselves trailing 3-0. The tone of the game seemed to shift dramatically after the Lightning failed to score on a five-minute power play midway through the first period. Toronto not only killed the penalty, but got off more shots than the Lightning during those five minutes. “It could have been a really different game if we had scored early,” Stamkos told reporters. In the end, Toronto’s stars looked slicker, and their brutes looked tougher. They completely humiliated Tampa Bay’s stars and later sent a message that they would not be intimidated when Maroon and Corey Perry went looking for fights in the third period. What’s worse is the Lightning gave the Maple Leafs permission to believe in themselves. By falling apart in every way imaginable, they made it easier for everyone in Toronto to believe the ghosts of recent postseasons had been exorcised. That’s why it will be important for the Lightning to respond quickly in Game 2. They cannot allow a journeyman goaltender like Jack Campbell to get the idea that he is Andrei Vasilevskiy’s equal. They cannot permit Toronto’s penalty kill to believe it can neutralize the Lightning’s skill players. They cannot let the Leafs start thinking they have found themselves in a storybook season. “I have the utmost confidence in our group,” Cooper said. That’s what a coach has to say after a game like that. And in Cooper’s case, the faith may even be justified. The Lightning have answered every question put before them the past two postseasons. They have won against teams that wanted to play fast and teams that have wanted a tight-checking game. They have won when the world doubted them, and they have won when the pressure of repeating was weighing on them. They have won 13 consecutive playoff games following a loss. But this is a new question. A new challenge. This is a new kind of defeat. Can the Lightning come back 48 hours after humiliation? John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.