Isolated by COVID It is up to us to limit COVID’s resurgence | Editorial, May 25 I write to you from Frankfurt, Germany, where I am spending unexpected time in isolation because of a positive COVID test prior to return to my home in St. Petersburg. Fully vaccinated and doubled boosted, I nonetheless contracted asymptomatic COVID somewhere along our otherwise fabulous travels to Norway and Germany. Masks and social distancing have fallen by the wayside here as well. I now know that under our current social behavior it is not a matter of if but when one will experience COVID. So, be prepared. I am convinced that my vaccination status afforded protection from more serious illness. This could have been far worse. Consider what other precautions you will take and, when COVID drops by for a visit due to our collective complacency, what will you do? For me, all of a sudden, the airlines treated me as if I had leprosy. Thank goodness for the immediate help and support of my German friends. By the way, I just tested negative on a home test and am hopeful for an official negative test soon so I can return home to St. Petersburg. Stephen Ritch, St. Petersburg Assault rifles are not pro-life They were kids. Let’s not forget. | Editorial, May 26 If these pro-life governors signing laws to ban abortions were truly “pro-life,” they would instead be signing laws to ban assault weapons. Marilynn Myers, St. Petersburg Open carry next to school A killer’s warnings | May 26 Let me understand this. In Texas anyone can carry a firearm without a license as long as they are not inside the school (or a few other places), So, if that’s true, then anyone can carry a firearm just outside school grounds? Does anyone not see the problem with this scenario? Are we not supposed to do something until an armed person is actually inside? This is not rocket science, people. The only people who can be helped by mental health treatments are apparently the members of the Texas government. Gary Washer, Tarpon Springs Hard on condo owners DeSantis signs property insurance, condo reform bills | May 27 I’m a condo owner in St. Petersburg. The bill treats condo owners and the associations they elect as step-children because we cannot go into the mortgage market to secure a loan for major repairs as single home owners can. Many or most condo owners will not be able to afford the enormous assessments this bill will mandate which means they would have to sell their condos, assuming anyone would buy them with prohibitive assessments. I think with passage of this flawed law, politicians in Tallahassee will become the enemy of two million condo owners. Frank Lupo, St. Petersburg Keep them away They were kids. Let’s not forget. | Editorial, May 26 To mourn is not enough, to offer thoughts and prayers is not enough, and to cry is not enough. I am convinced that every mother should refuse to send their children to any school until Congress will enact strict gun restrictions signed by the president. That would work. The mental health resources would be phase two. Marc Yacht, Hudson A matter of mental health As a school year ends, America goes numb | Column, May 26 Here’s one for our new public school math textbooks: If there are 100 cars in Pinellas County, how many deaths by car accident would there be? If there were 1,000,000 cars in Pinellas County, how many people would be killed in car accidents? Perhaps the solution to highway deaths is better access to mental health counseling? Or perhaps the solution is to get more cars off the road. Maggie Talbot, Clearwater