A developer is planning a 54-story residential tower in downtown Tampa that would, if built, be the tallest skyscraper on Florida’s west coast. Kolter Urban, a subsidiary of Delray Beach’s Kolter Group, filed plans Monday to build the 311-unit One Tampa at 507 N Ashley Drive, just southeast of Curtis Hixon Park. The building would encompass the entire block bordered by Ashley Drive and Twiggs, Tampa and Madison streets. At 633 feet, the building would be taller than any Florida tower outside Miami-Dade County, and by far the tallest on the Gulf Coast. Tampa’s current tallest tower is 100 North Tampa, which stands 42 floors and 579 feet. The plans describe a 1.27 million-square-foot tower with 5,000 feet of ground-level residential and retail space and 583 parking spaces. The 12th floor would include a pool, indoor-outdoor lounge area and other recreational facilities, such as a gym, movie room and golf simulator. The 13th floor would include business facilities and a yoga studio. Residences would range in size from 1,084 square feet for a 1-bedroom, 2-bath unit to 3,946 square feet for a 3-bedroom, 3-1/2-bathroom penthouse. It’s the second time in three years a developer has outlined plans for a luxury residential tower at that site. In 2019, developers including Sarasota’s Ascentia Development Group proposed a 34-story, 86-unit tower dubbed Arris Tampa at the same location. The developers, whose portfolio includes the Virage Bayshore in Tampa, assigned their contract to develop the property over to Kolter last year, said Ascentia president Jay Tallman. It’s also not the first time a developer has tried to build the Gulf Coast’s tallest skyscraper in Tampa. In 2018, developers unveiled plans for Riverwalk Place, which at the time was supposed to be more than 50 stories high. Two years later, the development team splintered and plans were downscaled to a more manageable 37 stories, including a hotel. Last fall, the project was rebranded the Pendry Hotel and Resorts, with 220 hotel rooms and 207 residences. In 2005, Donald Trump, then at the height of his Apprentice fame, lent his name to what would’ve been a 593-foot, 52-story tower on the same site. Trump pulled out of that project in 2007. Kolter is the developer behind ONE St. Petersburg, the 41-story residential tower that is that city’s tallest. The company has a handful of other Tampa Bay projects in development, including the 25-story Hyde Park House in Tampa and 35-story Saltaire and 42-store Art House in St. Petersburg. Last month, a group of ONE St. Petersburg homeowners sued Kolter and builder Kast Construction over what it called “negligent and defective” designs and construction, outlining nearly 100 mechanical, plumbing, electrical, roofing and structural problems. Calls and emails to Kolter were not immediately returned Tuesday afternoon.