After taking a two-year pandemic pause, Tampa’s Riverfest returns this weekend with activities along the entire length of the Riverwalk’s many parks, on the water and even in the air, with hot air balloons and artistic lanterns lighting up the night. Though the Riverfest took a break to avoid large crowds gathering, the Riverwalk itself became a magnet for Tampa Bay residents looking for some solace outdoors, said MaryBeth Williams, executive director of Friends of the Riverwalk, which has produced the community event since 2015. “It’s a connector, and it served as an opportunity for folks to get out and exercise and enjoy the riverfront,” Williams said. “Our foot traffic doubled during the pandemic.” It took 40 years for the Riverwalk to become an overnight success. The 2.6-mile ribbon of waterfront walking and biking paths finally gelled into an attractive, contiguous feature when the first Riverfest was held in 2015. By 2019 there were 40,000 people at the event, Williams said. It is a free two-day public event that will have a broad range of activities including live music, foodie events, illuminated hot air balloons and a Wiener Dog Derby. New this year is a lighted lantern parade, similar to the Earth Day lantern parade Dunedin held in 2011. Riverfest organizers hope it will become an annual event. Paper lanterns in the shapes of manatees, sea turtles and other artistic forms will be illuminated with battery-powered LED lights and held up on sticks for a mile-long parade along the river. The Riverwalk website has templates and videos that show you how to make a lantern at home, or you can buy one of their lantern kits for $20-$25 at thetampariverwalk.com or at Ace Hardware, 4215 W Bay to Bay Blvd., Tampa. 813-415-3180. There will also be lantern workshops in Water Works Park from 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday. The lantern parade will start at Water Works Park at 8:30 p.m. Saturday and end in Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park. Friday schedule Saturday schedule Parking is available at multiple locations within a few blocks of the event, and the TECO Streetcar has a free shuttle every 15 minutes. See tecolinestreetcar.org for a map and schedules. If you go Riverfest: A free two-day festival along the Tampa Riverwalk, 4-10 p.m. Friday and 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Saturday, all centered near Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park, 600 N Ashley Drive, Tampa. Free. thetampariverwalk.com.