Opening minds Republicans’ confusing attack on higher education | Column, May 9 I read William Felice’s piece on Republicans’ attack on higher education with interest and with particular focus on the work of Langston Hughes. Many years ago in another city, in a school riven with poverty and social problems, I had the opportunity to teach young children who were struggling to read. It was the work of Mr. Hughes that engaged them to where they began both reading and writing poems of their own existence. I often wonder how they fared as they grew up. Opening minds to develop critical thinking is what teachers do at all levels of education if they’re doing their job correctly. Sharyn Steiner, Largo Imagine that Republicans’ confusing attack on higher education | Column, May 9 Once upon a time, a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, there was a country whose citizens could speak their minds and have their own opinions without fear of punishment. And the rest of its citizens could either agree or disagree without punishment either. Thomas Rover, Frostproof Give us the history New law requires school lessons on victims of communism | May 10 The governor’s latest pandering spectacle, announcing the observance of “Victims of Communism Day,” once again reveals his hypocrisy is limitless. So schools are required to teach about the “evils of communism” but not about the effects of racial discrimination or slavery in our country? Don’t forget that, per HB 7′s “Individual Freedom” law — also known as the “Stop WOKE Act” — that “a person, by virtue of his or her race or sex, does not bear responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same race or sex.” The governor feels fine with teaching tragedies of other countries but wants to deprive our students from the whole truth about their country. And this is all from someone with an elite Ivy League education? Charles Zalac, St. Petersburg Make your vote count Let’s talk about the word ‘liberal’ | Column, May 9 Are you pleased with the new laws being passed? Think about the redistricting maps, abortion bans, voter suppression laws, “don’t say gay” bills, CRT laws, attacks on public education. We are taking steps backwards. If we want to move forward, the time to start is now by becoming involved in the 2022 elections and working together to keep our democracy. It is up to us. Marilyn S. Warner, Clearwater