If you aren’t taking the 2022 hurricane season seriously, consider a few facts: The 2021 hurricane season was the third-busiest on record, with 21 named storms. In fact, the World Meteorological Association went beyond its planned list of names for the year. That year also marked the highest number of hurricane landfalls ever in the U.S., with seven moving inland off the water. Florida was impacted three times. As weather gets more extreme as a result of climate change, this could mean more frequent and higher-intensity storms. For residents of the west coast of Florida, where major hurricanes have missed us for the most part, hurricane season can become routine. But please don’t get complacent — getting ready now is a decision that could save your life. Work with your family to develop a solid hurricane plan now. What are you going to do if a major storm is approaching? Knowing exactly what to do can save valuable time. With this goal in mind, here are some tips that can be included in your preparation planning. For more tips, go to TampaBayPrepares.org for the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council’s All-Hazards Disaster Planning Guide and Evacuation Map. Now is the time to get ready, in plenty of time to make plans before storms draw near. Sean Sullivan is executive director of the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council. • • • 2022 Tampa Bay Times Hurricane Guide IT’S HURRICANE SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane RISING THREAT: Tampa Bay will flood. Here’s how to get ready. DOUBLE-CHECK: Checklists for building all kinds of hurricane kits PHONE IT IN: Use your smartphone to protect your data, documents and photos SELF-CARE: Protect your mental health during a hurricane • • • Rising Threat: A special report on flood risk and climate change Part 1: The Tampa Bay Times partnered with the National Hurricane Center for a revealing look at future storms. Part 2: Even weak hurricanes can cause huge storm surges. Experts say people don’t understand the risk. Part 3: Tampa Bay has huge flood risk. What should we do about it? INTERACTIVE MAP: Search your Tampa Bay neighborhood to see the hurricane flood risk