TALLAHASSEE — Florida’s legislative session was marked by grueling fights over abortion, transgender issues and other topics of the nation’s “culture wars.” But one major piece of legislation received bipartisan praise and unanimous votes: a series of temporary tax breaks the state is promoting as its biggest ever. Gov. Ron DeSantis on Friday signed the tax package into law, touting first-time sales tax breaks for all sorts of essential and recreational items. The state’s sales tax is 6 percent, but many of the items are exempt from county sales taxes as well. “You’re gonna see breaks for really critical needs, like gas, diapers, disaster supplies, tools for skilled trades, recreational activities, you name it,” DeSantis said Friday. “Families are going to be able to save for things that really matter for them.” Here are the major tax cuts and exemptions lawmakers passed this year, in the order they take effect. For additional details, visit the Florida Department of Revenue’s website. 1. Children’s books: May 14 — Aug. 14, 2022 For three months, children’s books, regardless of the price, will be exempt from sales taxes. “Children’s books” are defined as “any fiction or nonfiction book primarily intended for children age 12 or younger.” 2. Disaster preparedness supplies: May 28 — June 10, 2022 The state’s annual two-week disaster preparedness tax holiday continues this year, with a slew of items exempt from state and county sales taxes, including: The Department of Revenue has a full list of items. 3. ‘Freedom Week’ sales tax holiday: July 1 — July 7, 2022 For a week, tickets to live sporting and music events, movies, museums, state parks and festivals will be tax-free. So will a variety of outdoor supplies, including: The state has a complete list on its website. 4. Children’s diapers, clothing and shoes: July 1, 2022 — June 30, 2023 An idea proposed by Democrats in the Legislature for years, Republicans this year agreed to a one-year sales tax exemption for children’s diapers. Another exemption makes baby and toddler clothing, apparel and shoes primarily intended for children age 5 or younger tax-free during the same period. 5. Impact-resistant windows, doors and garage doors: July 1, 2022 — June 30, 2024 For two years, these items will be exempt from sales tax for both commercial and non-commercial use. 6. Energy Star appliances: July 1, 2022 — June 30, 2023 The following Energy Star-labeled items are exempt from sales tax if they’re purchased for non-commercial use: 7. Back-to-school sales tax holiday: July 25 — Aug. 7, 2022 Lawmakers renewed the annual sales tax holiday for school supplies this year, with the following items exempt: More details are available on the state’s website. 8. Skilled worker tools sales tax holiday: Sept. 3 — Sept. 9, 2022 This first-time tax holiday applies to the purchase of a variety of tools and supplies, including: The complete list of eligible items is on the state’s website. 9. Gas tax suspension: Oct. 1 — Oct 31, 2022 To alleviate record-high gas prices, lawmakers this year agreed to suspend collection of the state’s gas tax for a month (notably, the month before the November election, when DeSantis and every legislative seat is up for election). Suspending collection of the gas tax means motorists will save about $0.25 per gallon, or about $1 billion in total. State lawmakers are plugging that hole with federal coronavirus stimulus dollars assigned by Congress. 10. Grand Prix tickets, property tax exemptions for widowers, etc. The tax package, House Bill 7071, also includes many other tax exemptions, including: