OAKLAND, Calif.  — Corey Kluber will be on the mound for the Rays today as they go for a series sweep of the A’s in the matinee finale, first pitch 3:37 Tampa Bay time. The Rays scored a dramatic, and historic, 10-7 win on Tuesday, overcoming a 5-1 deficit after the first inning and 5-3 in the second, scoring two in the ninth and five in the 10th. Per Stats LLC, Tuesday’s game was the first in the modern era (since 1901) in which there were eight (or more) runs scored in the first two innings, eight (or more) scored from the ninth on, and none in between. Oakland has ace Frankie Montas on the mound. With Wander Franco dealing with some leg issues, the Rays are giving him a DH day, with Taylor Walls starting at shortstop. Manager Kevin Cash said the DH decision is part of the Rays’ plan to manage Franco’s workload to keep him for sustaining a serious injury that could lead to an extended absence. “Watching him run (Tuesday), I think the treatment that he got, it helped,’' Cash said. “He looked pretty good. He actually managed himself a little bit, which was encouraging. But I just told (radio announcers Dave Wills and Andy Freed), keeping him off his feet means him not getting on base, and I don’t see that stopping.’' The Rays expect catcher Francisco Mejia, who has been out since testing positive for COVID-19 after the April 21 return from Chicago, to join the team in Seattle and be activated Thursday or Friday. Pitching coach Kyle Snyder and bench coach Matt Quatraro, who have been out since Saturday due to COVID reasons, are also expected back Thursday. Right-hander Robert Dugger, who was designated for assignment after coming up from Triple-A and pitching five-plus innings Sunday, was claimed off waivers by the Reds. Here is the Rays lineup: And for the A’s: • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.