Florida’s political landscape has been redrawn. Every 10 years, after the Census, lawmakers redraw the maps for Florida’s Senate and House and for its U.S. congressional delegation. How they divide up the state is vital to each party’s chances at securing as many seats as possible. Knowing the demographics and voting patterns of certain neighborhoods makes it easier to guess how the electorate of a district will vote in the future. These maps will be in effect for Florida’s state primary election in August and general election in November, unless a court blocks them. While the Legislature’s new state House and Senate district maps have already been approved by the state’s highest court, the congressional map is in legal limbo. Gov. Ron DeSantis in March vetoed the congressional map originally passed by fellow Republicans in Tallahassee, who later announced they would defer to him to draw the map. The Legislature ended up passing the map DeSantis’ team created. The governor’s plan creates 20 Republican-leaning districts to just eight Democrat-leaning districts. Voting rights groups sued, arguing DeSantis’ map violates a rule in the state Constitution banning mapmakers from making it harder for racial minorities to elect candidates they want. (In this case, it’s because it would eliminate a reliably-blue North Florida district with a sizable Black share of the electorate.) It also means one fewer Democratic-leaning district in Tampa Bay, which has already caused two prominent candidates to drop out. See for yourself how the new maps will affect Florida — and your vote. The Tampa Bay Times compiled demographic information from the state’s voter guide and election results collected by the University of Florida and Wichita State University. Using that info, we calculated how each old and new district would have voted in recent elections. Type in an address or a tap a point on the map to see which new districts you’ll be in and what that means for you. The dots on the map show how many people voted in each precinct in the 2020 presidential election, and whether they voted more for Joe Biden (blue) or Donald Trump (red). In the details below, see how your area voted recently and what its electorate looks like.