TAMPA ― Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs will visit Raymond James Stadium for a Super Bowl 55 rematch with the Bucs and Tom Brady in Week 4 of the NFL season. The game will be televised nationally on NBC’s Sunday Night Football on Sept. 11 at 8:20 p.m. It was revealed this morning on Today. The complete NFL schedule will be released tonight at 8 p.m. on the NFL Network. Two hours prior to that, teams will release the dates, times and opponents of their 2021 season openers. Brady, who retired Feb. 1 only to return to the team 40 days later, figures to help the Bucs land a handful of nationally televised games. Those likely will include a Christmas night game at Arizona, according to multiple reports. It would be the last of three NFL games played on the holiday normally reserved for elite NBA matchups and would mark the first time the Bucs have played on Christmas. The Bucs beat the Chiefs 31-9 in Super Bowl 55, becoming the first team to win the NFL championship in its home stadium. “Before last year’s Super Bowl, one or both of those guys (Brady and Mahomes) were in five consecutive Super Bowls. It’s about as good a quarterback matchup as you could have,” said NBC broadcaster Mike Tirico. Earlier that same year, the Chiefs defeated Tampa Bay 27-24 on Nov. 29. It the final loss for Brady and Tampa Bay in the 2020 season as they ripped off eight straight victories, including four in the postseason. Brady and Mahomes met a few weeks later in Tampa to pose for the cover of Madden NFL 22. The Chiefs will look a little different this year. Receiver Tyreek Hill was traded to the Dolphins. Safety Tyrann Mathieu signed with the Saints. Receiver Byron Pringle (Robinson High) signed with the Bears. But the Chiefs signed former Steelers receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster, Packers receiver Marquez Valdez-Scantling (Lakewood/USF) and Bucs running back Ronald Jones. Brady owns a 3-2 record over the Chiefs quarterback. They first met in 2018, with Brady throwing for 340 yards and a TD while adding another score on the ground in a 43-40 regular-season win with the Patriots over the Chiefs. Later that season, Brady and Mahomes met in the AFC Championship Game wit the Patriots winning 37-31, as Brady threw for 348 yards, a touchdown and two interceptions to help New England advance to the Super Bowl. Mahomes got his first win against Brady in December 2019. Then came the December regular-season game in Tampa in which Mahomes passed for 462 yards and three touchdowns. The NFL regular season kicks off Thursday, Sept. 8. Super Bowl 57 will be played Feb. 12, 2023, at State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Ariz. The Bucs will host the Panthers, Saints, Falcons, Packers, Chiefs, Rams, Bengals and Ravens. They play Seattle in Germany on Nov. 13. Their road opponents include the Panthers, Saints, Falcons, Cardinals (Christmas night), 49ers, Steelers, Browns and Cowboys. This story will be updated. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.