TAMPA — Andrew Smith and Connor Penn wanted to treat Game 1 of the Lightning’s first-round playoff series against the Maple Leafs a little bit like Game 16 and get the good vibes going. The Tampa friends have every confidence their favorite team will go on another deep Stanley Cup run — even after the Lightning’s Game 1 loss — so they brought an inflatable version of their friend Stanley to Sparkman Wharf on Monday night for the official watch party. They were in good company, surrounded by more than 1,000 Lightning fans. “It just feels like a family,” Penn, 28, said. “We’re all packed in.” In-game host Greg Wolf took the stage at breaks in play with giveaways and announcements while ThunderBug, donning his playoff beard, posed for photos with fans. It was the perfect environment for Tampa friends Katelin Rockey and Lizzie Bennett, who have made it a pregame tradition to stop at Sparkman Wharf’s LightHaus Beer Garden or Park & Rec for drinks before games at Amalie Arena, about a mile walk away. “We wanted to be as close as possible with as many fans as possible,” said Rockey, 23, clad in a blue Nikita Kucherov jersey. “I think Tampa has such a special atmosphere for hockey because it’s this (kind of environment), and I feel like that’s what makes it special because it’s snowing everywhere else and we can sit here on the water and watch the game, have our drinks and sit in shorts and a T-shirt.” For Makenzie Cann, it was the perfect way to get out with her 11-year-old furry friend, Rafael. Cann liked that she could take her golden retriever to a game and meet up with friends who also have dogs for a fun night out. Cann, 26, of Tampa, was all the more excited to take in her first full hockey postseason, having moved from Kentucky last year while the Lightning played the Canadiens in the Stanley Cup final. “I was like, ‘What are we all excited about?’ " joked Cann, who dressed Rafael in a Lightning-themed collar and blue T-shirt. “I was super impressed (that Tampa residents) support hockey as much as they do. It makes it more fun for me.” Die-hard fan Laura Henderson couldn’t imagine watching the Lightning’s first game of the postseason anywhere else. “The fans and the community, it’s like family,” said Henderson, 33, of Tampa. “I love to be a part of this. That’s what drew me here.” In November 2018, Henderson moved to the area from North Carolina. One Lightning game was all it took to hook her on hockey. Now, she sports a Stanley Cup tattoo on her right shoulder next to one of Nikita Kucherov’s signature that she got after the team’s boat parade in 2021. “The energy in that arena, and even outside of the arena, it’s like nothing I’ve ever felt before,” she said. “(Being around other fans like this) makes you forget about everything else going on in the world. You’re a part of something bigger.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.