With the state expected to face another active hurricane year, officials are urging Floridians to begin their planning now. For many, this includes preparing homes, stocking up on essential supplies, practicing generator safety and planning for an evacuation. While most know how to keep their families safe and comfortable during an extreme weather event (and more specifically, an evacuation), many are unsure of what they should do to protect their furry companions. Leaving pets out of an evacuation plan not only poses risks for pets and their owners but also for first responders who may venture into dangerous areas or situations to retrieve a family dog or cat. Pets left behind during a hurricane — even if in a high-level, “safe” place — can become injured, lost or worse, so it is always best to bring them along. Here is what you should do to prepare your pet. Include your pet in your emergency plan Pets have their own unique needs, and they impact where you and your family may be able to stay if you need to evacuate your home. It is important to know that pets may not be allowed in certain shelters unless they are service animals, and if they are accepted, space may be limited and pre-registration may be required. In fact, many national disaster evacuation centers like the Red Cross do not accept any pets or animals. Make sure you designate pet-friendly shelters, or pet-friendly hotels, as well as 24/7 emergency veterinary hospitals along your evacuation routes. Also, if your final destination is an out-of-town friend’s or relative’s home, make sure they are comfortable with you bringing Fido or Fifi along. They may have their own pets that are not welcoming to strangers — two- or four-legged. Lastly, ensure that your pet is up to date on all vaccinations. Pet-friendly shelters will only accommodate animals that are current on vaccines. Pro tip: In the case of a true emergency evacuation where Fido is regrettably left at home, create a buddy system that will get him or her out of there safely. This can be a trusted neighbor or friend who can enter your home to evacuate your pets if necessary. You may also want to fill out and post a pet emergency sticker on your front door to indicate to officials that a pet may be left inside. Prepare a disaster kit Like humans, pets need essential items to live — food, water, shelter. But beyond these things, there are ways pet owners can ensure a pet is not only healthy but also safe and comfortable during a natural disaster. As a general rule, do not wait to gather your hurricane essentials. Create a pet disaster kit in advance to ensure a swift and efficient evacuation for you and your loved ones. Here is what you will want to include in your kit: Practice evacuating Evacuating can be stressful for you and your pet. Familiarizing them with the process will help desensitize them to the situation. Here are a few ways to acclimatize your pet to high-stress situations like an evacuation: While we hope this hurricane season does not call for evacuations, it is necessary to plan ahead. Keep you and your family safe this season by including your pet in your emergency plans, and make sure to locate 24/7 veterinarian hospitals along your route in case of a medical emergency. James Barr is the chief medical officer of BluePearl Specialty and Emergency Pet Hospital. Find a pet-friendly hotel Search bringfido.com online or call 877‑411‑3436. Search dogfriendly.com online or call 888-281-5170. Search pet-friendly-hotels.net or call 866-966-3046. Search petswelcome.com. Search tripswithpets.com. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s pet emergency kit checklist: cdc.gov/cpr/readywrigley/documents/pet_emergency_kit_checklist.pdf • • • 2022 Tampa Bay Times hurricane guide IT’S STORM SEASON: Get ready and stay informed at tampabay.com/hurricane THE TRUTH IS OUT THERE: Seven hurricane myths that need to go away BACK-UP YOUR DATA: Protect your data, documents and photos BUILD YOUR HURRICANE KIT: Gear up — and mask up — before the storm hits PROTECT YOUR PETS: Here’s how to keep your pets as safe as you NEED TO KNOW: Click here to find your evacuation zone and shelter • • • Rising Threat: A special report on flood risk and climate change Part 1: The Tampa Bay Times partnered with the National Hurricane Center for a revealing look at future storms. Part 2: Even weak hurricanes can cause huge storm surges. Experts say people don’t understand the risk. Part 3: Tampa Bay has huge flood risk. What should we do about it? INTERACTIVE MAP: Search your Tampa Bay neighborhood to see the hurricane flood risk