In Uvalde, the 19 dead children were found in piles in one classroom, the latest victims of a generation of mass school shootings. More than 100 children have died in such shootings at K-12 schools since the Columbine High massacre in Colorado in 1999. They were just kids, every one of them with a life yet to be lived. Some of the Columbine students would be parents themselves now, probably worried about how they would keep their own kids safe. These are not statistics. These were kids. Here are just 20 of them from seven previous shootings. Let’s not forget. Who will stop this? Steven Robert Curnow, 14, (Columbine High, Colorado, 1999) dreamed of being a Navy top gun pilot. Daniel Rohrbough, 15, (Columbine High) was looking forward to getting his driver’s permit. Alicia White, 15, (Red Lake High, Minnesota, 2005) always liked to make Mother’s Day special. Chenelle Rosebear, 15, (Red Lake High) had attended an Indian boarding school in Oklahoma but begged to come back home. Jessica Rekos, 6, (Sandy Hook Elementary, Connecticut, 2012) had asked Santa for a new cowgirl hat and for new cowgirl boots. Noah Pozner, 6, (Sandy Hook Elementary) was “a ball of fire, energy, unrestrainable — love, light, everything,” his mother said. Emilie Alice Parker, 6, (Sandy Hook Elementary) loved art and was a best friend to her little sisters. Jesse Lewis, 6, (Sandy Hook Elementary) shouted for his classmates to run while the gunman paused to reload. Gia Soriano, 14, (Marysville-Pilchuck High, Washington, 2014) worked at a Zumiez outdoors store. Zoe Galasso, 14, (Marysville-Pilchuck High) was remembered by friends as “‘nice and awesome.” Alaina Petty, 14, (Marjory Stoneman Douglas High, Florida, 2018) was awarded the U.S. Army’s Medal of Heroism after her death. Nicholas Dworet, 17, (Marjory Stoneman Douglas High) was thrilled be headed to the University of Indianapolis to join their swim team. Luke Hoyer, 15, (Marjory Stoneman Douglas High) was the youngest of three siblings. His mom called him “Lukey Bear.” Jaime Guttenberg, 14, (Marjory Stoneman Douglas High) was a freshman who loved to dance. Joaquin Oliver, 17, (Marjory Stoneman Douglas High) bought Valentine’s Day flowers for his girlfriend the night before he was killed. Peter Wang, 15, (Marjory Stoneman Douglas High) was an Army Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps cadet. Angelique Ramirez, 15, (Santa Fe High, Texas, 2018) often accompanied her brother to Sunday church services. Sabika Sheikh, 17, (Santa Fe High) was an exchange student from Pakistan who loved to read. Tate Myre, 16, (Oxford High, Michigan, 2021) played on the Oxford football team and had a 3.9 grade point average. Madisyn Baldwin, 17, (Oxford High) loved to draw and had already been accepted into several colleges. Sources: Associated Press, Rocky Mountain News, Colorado Department of Transportation, Red Lake High School, Facebook, Joan Cox via Associated Press, ABC News, Miami Herald, Tampa Bay Times files. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.