NEW PORT RICHEY — After five years at the helm of Pasco County government, Dan Biles announced to county commissioners Tuesday that he will leave the job at the end of September. He told commissioners that he and his wife have been traveling overseas to do church work and had decided to relocate there to continue the development of churches and church leadership on a full-time basis later this year. In his letter to commission chairperson Kathryn Starkey, Biles wrote: “While change is inevitable, I don’t think many of us expected what we would go through when I was hired by the county five years ago. On the positive side, we have seen some incredible growth with projects, such as the much-anticipated Ridge Road extension and the subsequent Moffitt Campus initiative.” He also said that despite challenges such as the pandemic, he believes what “I am most grateful for is the radical cultural changes that have occurred within our organization that have resulted in not only significant performance gains across the enterprise but also the granting of three different “Best Places to Work” awards.” Commissioners first joked about not letting him go but then voiced concern about the timing. The county is in the process of taking over the operation of the jail from Sheriff Chris Nocco. County attorneys and Biles noted that there might be some flexibility in the timing, although Nocco has said he wants that done by Oct. 1, when the new fiscal year begins. The County Commission accepted Biles’ resignation and agreed to allow him to start the process of getting a search plan in place for his replacement. His last day in the office will be July 31 because he has personal time coming, but he said he would be available to assist remotely until the end of September. Commissioners plan to have a discussion about the search at some point in the future. “Words cannot express the appreciation I have for both the board and our team, and the support you all have given me over the last five years,” Biles wrote. “None of what we have accomplished would have been possible without it.”