ST. PETERSBURG ― Turns out the only thing that could cool off Manuel Margot was a sore right hamstring. The Rays placed their hottest hitter on the 10-day injured list Sunday due to a hamstring strain and called up reliever Ralph Garza Jr. in a corresponding move. Margot, who was lifted in Saturday’s game against Toronto for a pinch runner, was off to a torrid start, batting .348 with three home runs and 21 RBIs, with an 11-game hitting streak. Margot had been limited since leaving Monday’s game with hamstring tightness, returning to action Friday. Monday was the day he was named American League Player of the Week. It’s the third stint with the Rays for Garza, who went 2-2 with a 2.77 ERA in eight appearances with Durham, including two starts. Harold Ramirez will play rightfield and bat third in the lineup today in the series finale against the Blue Jays. The loss of Margot will mean more playing time for Ramirez and Vidal Brujan. Also, second baseman Brandon Lowe, who was a “healthy” scratch Saturday, is leading off as the designated hitter today. Outfielder Kevin Kiermaier, who fouled a pitch off his right knee, said he felt better than expected but was not in the lineup. “It’s sore today, I expected that but it’s honestly better than I expected so I’ll take that,” Kiermaier said. “Moving around okay. We’ll see how it feels when I need to ramp it up and move around a little bit. I just got done with some treatment and I’m in a good spot. “I’m available today. I’ll be ready to go.” Kluber hoping to bounce back Rays RHP Corey Kluber will be back on the mound Monday trying to atone for his worst outing of the season. Kluber was roughed up by the Angels on May 10, allowing eight earned runs and 11 hits in only three innings pitched. “Really just stick to the game plan, get ahead in the count and make quality pitches when I am ahead,” Kluber said. “That’s probably what I didn’t do the last time out, the second half of that. I got ahead but then left too many balls around the plate.” Kluber says he feels good about the way the season has gone so far. “I feel like I’m in a good spot,” Kluber said. “I feel good physically. I feel delivery-wise, I’m doing what I want to. For the most part, making quality pitches. Those are things you can control as a pitcher so continue on that.” This story will be updated. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.