Brent (Pasco) Brent is a 2-year-old male dog of unknown breed. He is calm, sweet, shy and nervous around new people and situations. He sits on command, takes treats gently and walks well on a leash. He would do best in a home without other dogs. For more information, call Pasco County Animal Services at 813-929-1212. Nuyear (Manatee) Nuyear is a 5-year-old male mixed-breed dog. He loves being outdoors and walks well on a leash. Scratch his back and he breaks out in a big grin. He takes treats gently and knows a few commands. He is selective when it comes to dog friends and would do best in a home without children. For more information, call Manatee County Animal Services at 941-742-5933. Mia (Pinellas) Mia is a 13-year-old female dog of unknown breed. She loves all people and always has a smile. She lost the only home she has known since she was 3 months old. Her foster family says she is responding well and has a lot of spunk. Mia is spayed, microchipped and vaccinated. For more information, fill out an application at fluffanimalrescue.org. Bert (Hernando) Bert is a 3-year-old brown brindle male terrier mix. He was extremely frightened upon intake and would tuck his tail and run away from shelter staff. With time, he has settled down. He is treat motivated, so learning basic commands has come easily. He likes to chase balls and is a strong chewer. He needs a patient, loving family to continue to build his trust and confidence. For more information, call Hernando County Animal Services at 352-796-5062. Olaf (Hillsborough) Olaf is a 4-year-old male chihuahua mix. Weighing less than 10 pounds, his foster parents say he is a “tiny but mighty sweet pirate.” He’s shy at first, but snuggly once he gets to know you. He is goofy and fun. Olaf enjoys toys, meals and playing with his foster siblings. He’s even cat friendly. He likes being carried for comfort and would do best in a quiet, patient home environment. He’s crate trained and housebroken and walks well on a leash. For more information, email OurPawPrintHearts@gmail.com.