TALLAHASSEE — State Rep. Ramon Alexander, D-Tallahassee, said he will not seek re-election in 2022 amid allegations that he sexually harassed a former employee at Florida A&M University. The surprise move sent shock waves through Florida Democratic circles Thursday. Alexander was slated to be the leader of the House Democratic caucus for the next two years — and as recently as Wednesday, the party said it would not look to replace him, according to Politico. In a statement posted to Facebook on Thursday, Alexander, 37, did not address the sexual harassment allegations. “It has been a true honor to stand in the gap year after year, for so many critical issues that impact the future of our state and nation,” he wrote. “After thoughtful consideration and personal self reflection, I will not seek re-election for my final term in the Florida House of Representatives.” Earlier this week, the Tallahassee Democrat broke news of the allegations against Alexander. A man who used to work in Florida A&M’s athletics department has accused Alexander of sending nude photos of himself, and of groping him on three occasions, according to the Democrat. Alexander has said he had a consensual relationship with the man. The man denied this to the Democrat, saying he turned away Alexander’s advances. Alexander, who is married with two children, was widely seen as a rising star in Florida Democratic politics. He went viral in January for his impassioned testimony against a controversial bill dealing with “critical race theory” in schools and in the workplace. Had Alexander stayed in the political fray, he would have been in charge of getting Democrats elected to the Florida House this November. Now, the party will have to look for a new leader. Rep. Evan Jenne, D-Dania Beach, the current House minority leader who will be termed out of office this election cycle, said the Democrats will elect a new leader to replace Alexander “in the near future.” “He and his family are in my thoughts as they navigate into this next phase of their lives,” Jenne said of Alexander in the statement. This is a breaking news story that will be updated.