If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Goals by Victor Hedman in the closing seconds of the first period and Corey Perry in the early minutes of the second sparked the Lightning to a 5-3 victory over the Maple Leafs in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series Wednesday at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto. Tampa Bay tied the best-of-seven series at one game apiece heading to Game 3 Friday at Amalie Arena. Hedman scored a power-play goal with 2.5 seconds left in the opening period, then hit Perry with a stretch pass that Perry turned into a breakaway goal just over two minutes into the second. The Leafs got on the board with just over eight minutes remaining in the second after Auston Matthews forced a Ryan McDonagh turnover and Mitch Marner set up Michael Bunting for a one-timer. The Lightning got the goal right back on a Nikita Kucherov power-play goal after Wayne Simmons took a bad post-whistle penalty for roughing. Tampa Bay’s Brandon Hagel and Brayden Point, and Toronto’s Mitch Marner and Alex Kerfoot closed out the scoring in the third period. Here’s how it happened: Third period Auston Matthews shot off the rush saved by Vasilevskiy LIGHTNING GOAL: Nick Paul breaks up give-and-go play, and Brandon Hagel scores at the other end. Lightning 4, Maple Leafs 1. William Nylander penalized for tripping Bellemare, and the Lightning go on the power play leading by three goals Wayne Simmonds penalized for cross-checking Perry, who appears to have hurt his left arm LIGHTNING GOAL: Brayden Point scores off feed from Nikita Kucherov on the power play. Lightning 5, Leafs 1. MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Mitch Marner scores, with Auston Matthews on the doorstep. Lightning 5, Leafs 2. MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Alex Kerfoot scores shorthanded. Lightning 5, Leafs 3. Brayden Point penalized after pulling down Auston Matthews, putting Toronto on the power play with 2-1/2 minutes remaining Nylander blast from the left circle goes behind the net Vasilevskiy makes blocker save on Auston Matthews shot from the right circle Maple Leafs pull Campbell in favor of an extra attacker Lightning clear the zone Toronto shot goes wide and caroms around the boards back down the ice Marner shot goes just wide Matthews can’t connect with Marner on the back door (Lightning win 5-3, tie series 1-1) Second period Andrei Vasilevskiy makes an outstanding glove save while down on the ice to snag a Timothy Liljegren snapshot from the slot. Moments earlier, Vasilevskiy stopped Mark Giordano from the right circle. LIGHTNING GOAL: Corey Perry scores on a breakaway after the Lightning catch the Leafs in a line change and Victor Hedman hits Perry with a stretch pass. Lightning 2, Maple Leafs 0. MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Michael Bunting scores from the low slot after Auston Matthews forces a Ryan McDonagh turnover in the corner and Mitch Marner picks up the loose puck and feeds Bunting. Lightning 2, Leafs 1 Campbell reaches behind him to keep a Perry rebound attempt from crossing the goal line. Wayne Simmonds penalized after the play for roughing Pierre-Edouard Bellemare. LIGHTNING GOAL: The Lightning take advantage as Nikita Kucherov whips a shot past Campbell from the top of the right circle. Lightning 3, Maple Leafs 1. Ilya Lyubushkin penalized for hooking, and the Lightning go back on the power play Kucherov loses the puck at the blue line, but Ilya Mikheyev shot goes off the stick of Vasileskiy Engvall clears the puck just before Corey Perry can get off a shot from in close Engvall shot goes high over Vasilevskiy’s shoulder Lyubushkin lays out Killorn with a hard hit along the wall Bellemare penalized for holding Marner, and the Maple Leafs get a power play with 4:01 left in the period Campbell stops McDonagh on shorthanded breakaway opportunity Killorn shorthanded chance saved by Campbell Cirelli and Hagel also get shorthanded chances (Lightning lead 3-1 after two periods) First period Corey Perry shot from the high slot off the rush saved by Jack Campbell Anthony Cirelli shot from the right circle bounces up and behind the net Lightning ice the puck Timothy Liljegren shot from the right point goes up over the crossbar Nick Paul checks Pierre Engvall Maple Leafs try stretch pass, but William Nylander loses his footing Lightning penalized for too many men on the ice, as Brandon Hagel was still on the ice along with Pierre-Edouard Bellemare’s entire fourth line (14:14 left) Morgan Rielly shot from the point goes wide Vasileskiy stops backhand attempt by Nylander Vasilevskiy makes save on Auston Matthews Lightning clear the puck out of the zone LIljegren shot goes off a skate and wide Liljegren shot misses over top of the net Nick Paul clears the puck out of the zone Lightning kill the penalty David Kampf has a breakaway opportunity after Ryan McDonagh shot is blocked, but McDonagh gets back to break it up Matthews backhand shot goes wide Cernak shot saved by Campbell Hedman shot from left point saved by Campbell Cernak and Simmonds collide in neutral zone Bellemare knocks down Giordano at offensive blue line Corey Perry wrist shot saved by Campbell. Pat Maroon penalized for roughing after knocking Liljegren into Campbell (9:00 left) Three of Toronto’s five shots came on their first power play Morgan Rielly shot from the point saved by Vasilevskiy. No rebound opportunity Nylander shot saved by Vasilevskiy Matthews drive blocked Rielly wrist shot trickles past the post Sergachev clearing attempt hits Cirelli in the helmet, but Cirelli stays on the ice Engvall sharp-angle shot saved by Vasilevskiy Lightning kill the Maroon penalty Muzzin shot blocked by Palat Palat long-distance shot blocked Rielly wrist shot hits a stick and goes wide Nylander shot from the center point saved by Vasilevskiy Giordano penalized for holding and Lightning get their first power play (4:44 left) Kucherov quick shot saved by Campbell with Killorn setting a screen in front Point shot goes off a stick wide Maple Leafs twice clear the zone Leafs kill the Giordano penalty Rielly shot off the rush goes wide Liljegren shot tipped wide McDonagh clears the puck out of harm’s way Kerfoot penalized for holding Hagel on the backcheck, and Lightning go back on the power play (0:44 left) Hedman can’t keep the puck in the zone Kucherov with quick pass into the slot to Point, but Campbell makes the save LIGHTNING GOAL: Hedman cleans up a loose puck at the right post. Lightning 1, Maple Leafs 0. (0.25 left) (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report What. Was. That? Yes, we knew Lightning-Maple Leafs had the makings of a competitive series after the teams split their four regular-season games and finished five points apart in the Atlantic Division standings. We expected goals (Toronto scored five), star power (league goal-scoring leader Auston Matthews had two of them) and physical play (113 combined penalty minutes), and we got every bit of that. What we didn’t expect was for the two-time defending Stanley Cup champions to pull a disappearing act, as they did in a 5-0 loss in Game 1 Monday in Toronto. The Lightning hadn’t lost a playoff game by five goals since the franchise’s first postseason in 1996. And they hadn’t been held scoreless in a playoff game since the 2018 Eastern Conference final, a span of 33 games. A power play that had been incendiary entering the game went 0-for-5 and yielded a shorthanded goal. Reigning Conn Smythe Trophy winner Andrei Vasilevskiy allowed five goals on 33 shots. His counterpart, Jack Campbell, pitched a shutout in only his eighth career postseason start. After 60 minutes of play, the biggest number on the Lightning scoresheet was 17, the number of penalty minutes for defenseman Jan Rutta. The next biggest? Forward Corey Perry’s 16 PIM. Tampa Bay’s three most potent scoring threats, Steven Stamkos, Nikita Kucherov and Brayden Point, had a combined six shots on goal, despite 12:51 of Lightning power-play time. (Deep breath) Okay, now the good news. No team has been better at bouncing back from a loss over the past two postseasons than the Lightning, which won the game following each of their 14 losses during that span. They came back to win all three series in which they had dropped Game 1, including the 2020 Cup final against the Stars. Of course, just because they have done so in the past doesn’t necessarily mean they will do it again. They will have to get bodies in front of Campbell, fix their entries on the power play, keep better track of Matthews and find a way to match the Maple Leafs’ tempo. But history shows us it is well within their capabilities, which means there won’t be any panic in the locker room. The Lightning still have the more talented roster top to bottom, the better defense, the experience of the past two postseasons and, Game 1 notwithstanding, the best goaltender in the world. Meanwhile, the Maple Leafs will be without veteran forward Kyle Clifford, one of just two Toronto players with Stanley Cup rings (Jake Muzzin is the other). Clifford was suspended for one game for boarding Ross Colton. Michael Bunting is back in the Leafs’ lineup and will skate with Matthews and Mitch Marner on the top line. Can the Lightning put Monday’s performance behind them and get back to the game that carried them to wins in seven of their final nine regular-season contests, including an 8-1 thrashing of the Maple Leafs on April 21? We’ll find out together, starting at 7:30 p.m., as the Lightning aim to even the series before it heads to Tampa. Gameday scene • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.