TAMPA — It’s no secret that the Maple Leafs have struggled in the postseason. The franchise hasn’t won a playoff series since 2004 and hasn’t lifted the Stanley Cup since 1967. Now the Leafs will be put to their biggest test yet as they take on the two-time defending Cup champs in Saturday’s Game 7 back home at Scotiabank Arena. While history isn’t on Toronto’s side, the Lightning aren’t letting those kinds of thoughts creep in. “(Their history) is not going to win us a game,” coach Jon Cooper said. “Whatever’s happened in the past, that’s really got no bearing on us. It does in their locker room, but we have to look back on what we’ve done in these situations.” The Lightning have only played in one Game 7 over their past two Cup runs (last year against the Islanders) after the group failed to close out the best-of-seven series while up 3-2. It’s an experience the team will draw on against Toronto, which hasn’t won a Game 7 since 2004 (against Ottawa in the first round). Tampa Bay has failed to close out a round only four other times — three of which came in 2021 — over the past two years. Even with the extra game needed, the Lightning always responded with a win, contributing to their 17-0 record in games following a loss. “You just have to bring it,” captain Steven Stamkos said of what’s ahead. “You never know when that moment is in a game. It’s almost like you’re playing three overtime periods. “That’s the magnitude of every shift, mistake, penalty, great blocked shot — you don’t know what that moment is going to be in a Game 7. You really have to just lay it on the line. Last time we had one of these, it obviously one of the biggest wins in franchise history.” Left wing Alex Killorn echoed Stamkos’ sentiments, with the expectation that there’s never a bad shot in a Game 7 situation. Last year the Lightning won the conference final 1-0 over New York. “One goal, as it was in the Islanders series, one goal was all that was needed to win that game,” Killorn said. “...No one wants to take a risk that could eventually lead to a goal in their end, so everyone’s kind of playing that way.” The Lightning’s five previous series-clinching games were low-scoring affairs with shutout wins from goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy (dating to 2020′s Cup final series win over Dallas). Missed opportunities, meanwhile, have plagued Toronto for nearly a decade. The Maple Leafs are 0-9 in series-clinching games since 2013 and 0-8 in the Auston Matthews/Mitch Marner era. Matthews and Marner have combined for 15 points this series (Matthews with four goals and four assists; Marner with two goals and five assists). And they understand what is at stake. “What’s in the past is in the past,” Matthews said after Thursday’s overtime loss at Amalie Arena. “We can’t change that now. It’s about this next game and going out there with a purpose, and with details, and just competing for 60 minutes or whatever it takes.” Added Cooper: ”I don’t think we can look back at what’s happened in Toronto in the past and think, ‘Oh, we got this.’ We’d be sorely mistaken if that’s the attitude we took.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.