If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Brayden Point scored with less than two minutes remaining in overtime, and the Lightning survived the Maple Leafs 4-3 Thursday at Amalie Arena to extend their opening-round playoff series to a seventh and deciding game. By avoiding elimination, Tampa Bay forced a Game 7 Saturday night in Toronto and kept its hopes for a third straight Stanley Cup championship alive for at least another game. The Lightning jumped out to a 2-0 lead on goals by Ondrej Palat and Anthony Cirelli, but the Maple Leafs scored three times in the second period — including twice by John Tavares over the final 34 seconds — to take a 3-2 lead into the third. High-sticking penalties against David Kampf and Alex Kerfoot gave Tampa Bay 5-on-3 advantage in the third period, and Nikita Kucherov took advantage, scoring at 9:20 to send the game to overtime. Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 30 of 33 shots, none more important than the nine he saved in the extra period. Here’s how it happened: Overtime Good pressure from Lightning to start the period McDonagh shot from left point blocked by Tavares Vasilevskiy stops Kerfoot at the doorstep on 3-on-2 Colton can’t connect with Hagel on cross-ice pass Vasilevskiy stops Engvall shot from left circle Vasilevskiy robs Mikheyev from left circle with glove save after Engvall pokes puck off Colton’s stick Vasilevskiy saves Matthews shot from left circle Maple Leafs ice the puck Point can’t get stick on Killorn centering pass as his stick is tied up Cirelli slap shot blocked by Holl Stamkos bad-angle shot from low in the right circle saved by Campbell McDonagh shot into traffic deflected wide Vasilevskiy stops Kampf shot from the slot off the rush after pass from Lyubushkin Vasilevskiy gloves Giordano shot from the left point Puck knocked off Marner’s stick by Cernak as he drives the net after turnover by Hedman Rielly sharp-angle shot saved by Vasilevskiy Foote shot blocked out of play by Muzzin Maple Leafs ice the puck Giordano drops to the ice and possibly prevents a Point goal Muzzin wrist shot from center point is blocked Marner shot blocked and goes out of the zone Killorn shot from slot blocked by Lyubushkin Sergachev makes great defensive play to keep rebound away from Mikheyev as he drives to the net Vasilevskiy saves Giordano shot from the left point Foote blocks Mikheyev shot from the slot Maple Leafs ice the puck Cirelli shot from left circle misses high to the glove side Marner shot from right side goes wide Hedman wrist shot from long range gloved by Campbell Marner crossing pace tipped wide by Matthews LIGHTNING GOAL! Brayden Point scores the winner with 1:56 remaining in the overtime period. Lightning win 4-3. Third period Vasilevskiy stops Michael Bunting shot from the left circle Stamkos shot blocked by Muzzin Cernak shot saved by Campbell Stamkos shot blocked hit Nylander Kucherov shot blocked Sergachev wrist shot misses high Paul passes to Hagel, who crashes into Campbell, but the puck stays out of the net Bunting shot from the right side misses high Kucherov shot from right circle goes wide Campbell saves Foote shot from the right point Kampf penalized for high-sticking, putting the Lightning on the power play with 11:48 remaining. Kerfoot penalized for high-sticking Hedman, and the Lightning will have a two-man advantage for 1:45. Stamkos shot from left circle blocked by Brodie Campbell makes save on Kucherov from low on right side Kucherov misses high Marner breaks up a pass and clears the puck out of the zone LIGHTNING GOAL! Kucherov scores from the right circle with Cirelli and Corey Perry setting screens in front on a 5-on-3. Lightning 3, Maple Leafs 3. There are still 58 seconds remaining in the 5-on-4 power play Kucherov shot saved by Campbell The 5-on-4 power play has expired Vasilesvskiy saves Nylander shot from the right circle Muzzin shot from the left circle blocked by Bogosian Vasilevskiy stops Tavares and Kerfoot in quick succession with 5:49 to play Killorn shoots wide off the rush Campbell saves Hedman shot from long range Hagel shoots behind Campbell and through the crease after Paul skated out from behind the net and made a nice cross-ice pass Lightning ice the puck with 41.8 seconds to play Lightning win defensive-zone faceoff against Matthews Lightning ice the puck Paul blocks Matthews shot from the left circle Vasilevskiy saves Nylander shot with 17.7 left Vasilevskiy smothers Riley shot from the right point with two Maple Leafs in front (Lightning and Maple Leafs tied at 3 after regulation) Second period Lightning will have 1:33 remaining on the power play to start the period Bouncing pass for Kerfoot steered clear of the net by Vasilevskiy Hedman slap shot from the center point blocked Bogosian shot from the right point goes high over Campbell’s shoulder Giordano wrist shot from the right point is tipped up over the net Hagel blocks a Kase shot off the shin pad and appears the worse for wear Vasilevskiy makes back to back saves on Ilya Lyubushkin from the high slot and Matthews from the left circle McDonagh shot from the left circle saved by Campbell Muzzin shot from the right circle off misses wide Kucherov moves around a defender and gets off a backhand shot that Campbell fights off Bogosian drive from the point saved by Campbell Cernak pass picked off by Marner, but the Lightning recover Cal Foote penalized for hooking Mikheyev, putting Toronto on the power play, 10:58 left in the period Vasilevskiy puts his stick down to thwart Marner attempt from the side of the net Nylander shot from the left circle is blocked, and the Lightning clear the puck Sergachev knocks Nylander off the puck, and the Lightning get another clear Pierre-Edouard Bellemare skates the puck out of the Tampa Bay zone LIGHTNING GOAL! Cirelli scores shorthanded, leaning into Mark Giordano, then spinning and flinging a shot at the net. Lightning lead 2-0. MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: Matthews scores on a tip in front of a Giordano shot that appeared to be going wide of the net. Lightning lead 2-1. Engvall spins and flings a shot at the net, and Vasilevskiy stops Kampf backhander from in front Rielly shot misses high Stamkos shot from the right circle redirected past the far post Vasilevskiy stops Kerfoot wrister from low in the right circle with Kase crashing from the opposite side Mikheyev shot from in tight doesn’t go Holl poke-checks puck off Kucherov’s stuck in the left circle after Kucherov had him beaten Foote prevents Mikheyev from getting shot away after a stretch pass Campbell stops Palat shot Stamkos shot blocked by Matthews MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: John Tavares scores after a shot from the left circle crept up and over Vasilevskiy with 0:33 to play. Lightning 2, Maple Leafs 2. MAPLE LEAFS GOAL: John Tavares scores top shelf with 7.8 seconds left in the period. Maple Leafs lead 3-2 (Maple Leafs lead 3-2 after two periods) First period William Nylander shoots wide of Andrei Vasilevskiy Steven Stamkos shot from the right circle off the rush misses high Zach Bogosian defends against 2-on-1 and then knocks down Nylander Auston Matthews centering pass knocked away by Vasilevskiy Alex Kerfoot misses Ilya Mikheyev with stretch pass Ryan McDonagh wrist shot saved by Jack Campbell Cal Foote shot from the right point knocked down in front Ondrej Kase shot from the right circle blocked by Erik Cernak Mikheyev wrist shot misses wide Alex Killorn backhander saved by Campbell TJ Brodie blocks Anthony Cirelli shot David Kampf quick shot from the slot blocked by Brayden Point, goes up and over the net Campbell saves Ondrej Palat blast from the inner left circle after a nice pass from Steven Stamkos, then leaps in the air to snare the rebound Cal Foote wrist shot into traffic deflects into the corner Nikita Kucherov shot from the slot saved by Campbell after a faceoff win by Stamkos Cernak shot from the right point saved by Campbell Auston Matthews shot off the rush saved by Vasilevsky after Nylander sprung free into the Lightning zone Kase shot from low in the left circle saved by Vasilevskiy after nice pass from Colin Blackwell Pierre Engvall shot from the right point blocked by McDonagh Justin Holl penalized for interference, Nick Paul for embellishment, setting up 4-on-4 for two minutes Vasilevskiy stops Nylander shot from the left circle after Nylander stripped Kucherov off the puck in the neutral zone Point drives the net but can’t get a shot off LIGHTNING GOAL! Palat scores top shelf from the right circle after a blind backwards pass by Alex Kerfoot sends him in alone into the Maple Leafs zone. Lightning lead 1-0. Marner shot saved by Vasilevskiy after Cirelli turnover in the neutral zone Morgan Rielly penalized for tripping Palat, putting the Lightning on the power play Campbell stops one-timer from Stamkos (Lightning lead 1-0 after one period) Pregame scouting report It all comes down to tonight. Well, and Saturday night, the Lightning hope. And beyond. Beat the Maple Leafs in Game 6 of their opening-round series tonight at Amalie Arena, and the Bolts will force a do-or-die Game 7 Saturday in Toronto. Win there, and they’ll advance to the second round of the playoffs. But lose tonight, and their hopes for a three-peat will end suddenly on the same ice where they hoisted a second straight Stanley Cup just 10 months ago. How did we get to this point so quickly? Start with a third-place finish in the Atlantic Division during the regular-season that resulted in a first-round showdown against a team that matches up well against the Lightning, one that can match their offensive firepower, has an even better power play and creates dangerous scoring chances even on the penalty kill. Add a tightly called series that limited the amount of 5-on-5 play and Tampa Bay’s propensity for committing senseless penalties, such as delay of game, too many men on the ice or careless stick fouls. Blow a two-goal lead when you had a chance to move ahead for the first time in the series in Game 5, and you find yourself where the Lightning do: fighting for your playoff life. Not that the situation is hopeless, by any means. Tampa Bay has risen to the occasion time and time again over the past three postseasons, winning 16 consecutive times in games immediately following a loss, including twice already in this series. Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy typically is at his best when his team has needed him most, and stars Victor Hedman, Nikita Kucherov, Steven Stamkos and Brayden Point seem to thrive under pressure. The Lightning also have an experienced locker room that has won eight consecutive postseason series dating to 2020, while the Maple Leafs have not advanced beyond the first round since 2004, losing their past eight series-clinching games. Of course, the Bolts still have to get the job done on the ice. And that will mean playing with pace, doing a better job defensively, staying out of the penalty box and locking the Leafs down late if they get the lead. Follow our live updates, starting at 7:30 p.m., as the Lightning hope to stave off elimination and keep their championship hopes alive for at least another game. Game day scene • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.