Hundreds protested on both sides of Tampa Bay Tuesday in the wake of a leaked draft of a U.S. Supreme Court opinion that would overturn Roe v. Wade and end nearly 50 years of precedent that protects a person’s right to abortion. Many lifted painted signs in support of abortion rights, while others waved pride flags and demanded action in speeches. Organizers passed petitions and registered attendees to vote. The mood was consistent throughout the crowd: Anger. Not just with the Supreme Court’s possible decision, but with the state of the progressive movement. “It’s a weird situation,” said Bernice Lauredan, 30. “We’re all shocked, but also not at all surprised. Florida is continually seeing its basic human rights stripped away. That’s why we need Tampa to be a place that’s safe for everyone, even when elsewhere in the state is not.” Lauredan was an organizer for Tampa’s protest at Joe Chillura Courthouse Square, which drew around 75 people —including Democratic U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor. While others said they battled rush-hour traffic to rally for women’s rights and healthcare, Lauredan said she also came to pressure Tampa Mayor Jane Castor into denouncing the draft opinion. She also called for the mayor to publicly assure the city’s most vulnerable residents — Black people, mothers, transgender people — that they are welcome here. When asked for a comment on the draft opinion, Mayor Jane Castor sent a statement to the Times that said, “Roe v Wade guarantees the fundamental right for all women to make personal health care decisions. It is also basis of so many other opinions and this will remove protections that generations have fought for. We’re seeing roll backs on reproductive rights, civil rights & LGBT rights. This is not what our country stands for.” Kip Eldridge, 72, said he was hesitant to even be interviewed by reporters at Tuesday’s protest. Donning a pink Planned Parenthood T-shirt, he said he was there to support the rights of his wife, two daughters and two granddaughters. More than anything, he insisted that attention be on anyone but him. “People always hear from the old white man — they don’t need to hear from me right now,” he joked. “But I’m here because it’s important for people to recognize their privilege and show their support for those who weren’t born with it.” Eldridge, now a Tampa resident, started college in 1967 at Wittenburg University in Springfield, Ohio. Back then, he said, his days were spent advocating for abortion rights and protesting the Vietnam War. During that time, people took to the streets by the tens of thousands to fight for social and health issues that remained in place for decades. Now, however, those same rights are “being slowly chipped away at,” he said, with Monday’s draft opinion leak about Roe v. Wade as the most damning to date. “If there is one good thing out of this, maybe it will be the magic bullet to get young people out to vote,” Eldrige said. While Eldridge admits he was likely the oldest attendee at Tampa’s protest, 9-year-old Hazel Kuswa may have been its youngest. She attended along with her mother, Michelle Gajda, 44, and her 13-year-old brother, Wesley Kuswa. Gajda, of Tampa, said it was important her children attended Tuesday because the future of their healthcare is at stake. Gajda admitted to feeling a bit of “activism fatigue” when news of the Supreme Court leak broke Monday night. But that fatigue quickly turned to anger and, by Tuesday morning, a desire to mobilize progressives around Tampa Bay to elect Democrats and fight against the “conservative stacking of judges” in state and federal courts. “This is a huge wake-up call to everyone who thought electing (President Joe) Biden was enough,” she said. “If anyone needed a wake-up call, this was it.” Across the bay in St. Petersburg, more than 100 people gathered outside the St. Petersburg courthouse, 545 1st Ave N, St., chanting “bans off our bodies” and holding hastily made signs in support of abortion rights. The rally, planned and executed in less than a day, was organized by state Rep. Michele Rayner and the Pinellas Democratic Progressive Caucus. On the steps of the courthouse, Rayner thanked the crowd for coming out. ”It is you who are going to make the change,” Rayner said. Christina Weil, one of the attendees at the rally, said she took off work to make it to the protest. The 33-year-old says she doesn’t voice her political opinions often, but she has felt unheard most of her life. ”I’m a Black woman, and I’m not heard. I’m just not a part of the demographic that’s heard,” Weil said. However, after hearing about the possibility of the Supreme Court overturning Roe V. Wade, she said she decided she couldn’t stay quiet. Weil said it’s more than just abortion rights that are uncertain right now — she worries about the fate of other major Supreme Court decisions, such as Brown V. Board of Education, too. ”You can’t just overturn a Supreme Court decision,” Weil said. For Meghan Gillespie, 33, of Riverview, a person’s right to an abortion is deeply personal. At 17, Gillespie found out she was pregnant. ”I got pregnant and the timing was not right,” she said. “I’m very, very thankful I had voices of reason to help me through with that.” Now a mother, she said she’s thankful she had the choice about when she wanted to start a family. Emily Norton, 30, held a sign that simply said, “PlanCPills.org.” She said she spent most of the day Tuesday feeling anxious, so she bought Plan C — abortion medication that can be ordered online — as a way to feel proactive. ”It’s my responsibility to be prepared,” Norton said. “I want to know that when I start a family it’s on my terms.” Just a block away, on Central Avenue and Sixth Street North, the Party for Socialism and Liberation in Tampa Bay held its own rally for abortion rights at 6 p.m. Organizers estimate about 150-250 people attended its demonstration in all. ”Abortion is a human right, and abortions are going to continue, no matter what,” said 22-year-old Karla Correa, an organizer of the rally. “There’s organizations here that are willing to help people get abortions … it’s not going to stop, it’s just going to make it much more difficult.” Jessica Terrence, 42, said news of the draft opinion leak was not shocking, but it felt like a gut punch. ”It was devastating,” she said. Terrence said she worries her children will grow up without the same rights she had growing up. She’s taught them that people have the right to choose when and how they have children, she said. ”They’re angry — they’re mad that I didn’t let them come with me today,” Terrence said. At a rally held outside the Florida Supreme Court in Tallahassee on Tuesday, the mood was a combination of festive and somber. Some 100 demonstrators gathered on the steps of the state’s highest courthouse, waving signs for honking passersby and blasting Beyoncé. The activist group Tallahassee Community Action Committee brought half a dozen boxes of pizza for demonstrators, who cheered, chatted and milled around in the late afternoon humidity. Valeria Fabus, 16, came to the demonstration with her family’s two dogs, Diva and Rags. She said she is anxious to vote in 2024, where she will be opposing DeSantis .”They’re trying to take us back like 50 years,” Fabus said. She joked that her dogs were highly political as well. ”They’re both definitely liberals. They’ve been to as many protests as I have.” Times staff writer Kirby Wilson contributed to this report.