Fifteen players on the Lightning’s playoff roster were part of last season’s Stanley Cup championship squad. Thirteen have been on the past two title teams. Defenseman Ryan McDonagh said before Friday’s game that when you have that much playoff experience in your locker room, you know when you’re not on your game and what you need to do to get back to it. It took the Lightning the better part of two periods and some line shuffling, but they finally reached something approaching their championship-level form late in a 5-2 loss to the Maple Leafs in Game 3. Only the incredible work of Toronto goaltender Jack Campbell kept Tampa Bay from coming all the way back from a three-goal deficit. Mistakes and undisciplined penalties kept the Lightning from getting into any kind of early flow and put them in a quick hole. A delay-of-game penalty against Pat Maroon, who looked to the Amalie Arena ceiling in frustration after the puck he meant to shoot out of the defensive zone sailed into the seats, set the stage for Morgan Rielly’s power-play goal five minutes into the game. When too many backcheckers committed to Ilya Lyubushkin on a 3-on-1 break five minutes later, it left Colin Blackwell wide open at the back door. The Lightning made things more difficult for themselves at the beginning of the second period, starting a man down after Erik Cernak was called for roughing at the end of the first. A delay-of-game penalty against Ryan McDonagh then gave the Maple Leafs 25 seconds of 5-on-3 time. Tampa Bay managed to kill both penalties, but a Brandon Hagel pass that never made it to Ross Colton allowed David Kampf to skate unimpeded down the middle of the ice and put Toronto ahead 3-0. The Lightning found some answers in 5-on-5 play in the third, getting players to the front of the net, putting shots on goal, keeping pucks alive and pouncing on rebounds. Had they played with the same urgency from the start and stayed out of the penalty box, they might find themselves leading the series rather than trailing by a game. McDonagh and his teammates know they have better in them. Now, they’ve got to find it before it’s too late. Grade: C-plus Here is how we graded the rest of the Lightning’s performance in Game 3: Point of attack The line of Brayden Point, Anthony Cirelli and Alex Killorn set the tone for the Lightning in their Game 2 win, and it was easily Tampa Bay’s best in Game 3. Ironically, breaking up the trio was what got the Lightning back into the game. Feeding off Point, who led all NHL players with 14 goals each of the past two postseasons, the line was active in the Toronto zone, using its speed to create turnovers and turn them into high-quality scoring chances. The line accounted for five of the Lightning’s nine shots in the first period, including four by Point, who could have had a couple of goals if not for some quick saves by Campbell. The top line of Steven Stamkos, Nikita Kucherov and Ondrej Palat didn’t play with anything close to that tempo until Point joined Stamkos and Kucherov for a late-second-period shift. It quickly resulted in Stamkos’ first shot on goal. Coach Jon Cooper moved Kucherov to Point’s line in the third period and put Killorn with Stamkos and Palat, and it seemed to rejuvenate all four lines, as the Lightning pressed the attack the rest of the way. Don’t be surprised to see the same lines back together Sunday in Game 4. Grade: B-plus Close calls Never mind the final margin. This was a one-goal game for most of the third period and felt every bit of it. The Lightning buzzed the Toronto net, outshooting the Maple Leafs 14-7, and nearly buried numerous chances. Colton had the best one when he found himself at the left post with the puck on his stick and an empty net in front of him. But a sliding TJ Brodie altered his aim just enough for the puck to hit the far post. Cirelli had an opportunity from in close, but his shot hit Campbell in the left arm. Campbell stopped Kucherov on a breakaway and dived to thwart a Stamkos one-timer from the left circle with the Lightning on the power play. You had the feeling that had the game gone any longer and the Lightning hadn’t had to pull goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy, they would have tied it. Grade: A-minus Quick as a cat A quick recovery by Vasilevskiy in the second period prevented a shorthanded goal and kept the Lightning from falling hopelessly behind. With his team already down three goals, Vasilevskiy misplayed a puck as Mitch Marner bore down on him. Marner got off two quick shots as Vasilevskiy dropped into a split, but the goaltender made successive pad saves to keep the puck out of the net. Instead of a 4-0 deficit, the Lightning found themselves down just 3-1 when Colton scored on a one-timer from the right circle shortly afterward. Vasilevskiy was even sharper in the third period, stopping three shots from league goal-scoring leader Auston Matthews across two breakaway opportunities to keep the Lightning’s comeback chances alive. Vasilevskiy finished with 31 saves on 34 shots faced. It’s not always how many stops you make in the playoffs but when you make them, and the “Big Cat” came up with some huge ones when his team needed him most. Grade: B-minus • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.