As Jobsite Theater heads into its 24th year, the resident theater company of The David A. Straz Jr. Center for the Performing Arts has programmed a lineup for its 2022-23 season that includes popular shows from its past. In a news release announcing the season, producing artistic director David M. Jenkins notes that after two years of “great uncertainty,” the theater hopes to welcome the audience back in full force. “We had very honest conversations as to how critical it is that we line up a season that’s going to be hard for our audiences to resist,” Jenkins said in the release. The theater has expanded to present shows in both the Shimberg Playhouse and the larger Jaeb Theater. Among the shows that Jobsite is reprising are Picasso at the Lapin Agile, Dracula, Lizzie: The Musical and Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992. The theater will present Misery, based on Stephen King’s novel. The show serves as a fundraiser for Jobsite; all principal actor and director salaries are being donated back to the company. After the success of gothic cabaret Shockheaded Peter, Jobsite has adapted the work of Lewis Carroll in Jobsite Theater’s Alice, a new “cabaret spectacle.” And the theater’s commitment to Shakespeare continues with Hamlet, adapted by Jenkins. Picasso at the Lapin Agile (Shimberg, Sep. 16-Oct. 9, previews Sep. 14-15): Steve Martin’s first comedy written for the stage is set in 1904 and sees Albert Einstein (age 25) and Pablo Picasso (age 23) meet at a haven for artists, musicians, poets and philosophers in Paris’ Montmartre neighborhood. Dracula (Jaeb, Oct. 21-Nov. 13, previews Oct. 19-20): Adapted by Steven Dietz from the novel by Bram Stoker, this version uses special effects and neo-Victorian vibes to tell Count Dracula’s tale of suspense and seduction as he tries to take London. Hamlet (Jaeb, Jan. 13-Feb. 5, 2023, previews Jan. 11-12): William Shakespeare’s tragedy directed and adapted by Jenkins tells the tale of a young student tormented by their father’s death and grapples with mortality. Hamlet is sent by his father’s ghost to avenge his death and expose the truth. The show will feature a score from the company’s award-winning resident composer Jeremy Douglass. Misery (Shimberg, March 17-April 9, 2023, previews March 15-16): William Goldman adapted Stephen King’s novel that follows romance novelist Paul Sheldon, who is rescued from a car crash by Annie Wilkes, his “number one fan.” Things take a dark and tortuous turn when Annie discovers Paul has killed off her favorite character, Misery Chastain. Jobsite Theater’s ALICE (Shimberg, May 12-June 4, 2023, previews May 10-11): The “cabaret spectacle” celebrating the work of Lewis Carroll fuses live music, visual art, puppetry, aerial and circus arts, and theater magic. Adapted by the ensemble with art direction by Spencer P. Meyers, music by Jeremy Douglass and lyrics by regional artists. LIZZIE: The Musical (Shimberg, July 14-Aug. 6, 2023, previews July 12-13): Four women front a six-piece rock band to tell the story of double axe-murderer Lizzie Borden. Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992: (Shimberg, Aug. 18-28, 2023, previews Aug. 16-17): Andresia Moseley takes on 27 characters following the verdict in the Rodney King trial. The Los Angeles Times called Anna Deavere Smith’s script “the most comprehensive literary response” to the “cacophony of voices at the city’s heart.” Season passes go on sale May 30 for $173.25 through July 31, at which time the price increases to $208.25. Season passes are not subject to additional fees, come with unlimited free ticketing exchanges, and additional tickets to bring friends may be purchased at a discount. A pass to Thursday preview performances is $134.75. A schedule for when single tickets go on sale will be released in the summer. They start at $39.50 for standard performances (previews are $24.50), and increase by performance date based on demand. Single tickets are also subject to fees. To purchase a pass, visit jobsitetheater.org/season-tickets or call the Straz Center Ticket Office at 813-229-7827 between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m.