Rising rents and spiking home prices are squeezing Tampa Bay residents up and down the economic ladder. For seniors living in subsidized affordable housing, a modest rent increase can be backbreaking, even though they already pay well below market rates. But affordability is entirely circumstantial, and seniors on fixed incomes have perhaps the least cushion of anyone to absorb soaring living costs. Seniors at Lutheran Residences of South Pasadena, a 16-story apartment tower off Park Street with views of Boca Ciega Bay, have been paying about $550 a month for a one-bedroom apartment. They include retired homemakers, nurses, bus drivers, as well as elderly and disabled residents, all living on modest fixed incomes. Even amid signs of disrepair, the aging building is a safe haven for these seniors, who both know and fear that they have nowhere else to go. With the recent news of a rent hike, Lutheran Residences tenants will be paying about $680 a month — an unheard of bargain in this region, where average rents shot up 24 percent last year. Rents had barely budged at the high-rise over the past decade — another anomaly — and the nonprofit that owns the building says the increase is needed to pay for repairs and maintenance. As one of the nonprofit’s board members told the Times, “Just to put it in context, I think a whole lot of people in Pinellas County would love to hear that their rent only went up $125 this year.” That may be true, but for residents already spending 50% to 60% of their monthly income on rent, the reality is no less painful. Seniors, in general, are more vulnerable to inflation because their income is fairly flat — Social Security benefits combined with retirement income like a pension or 401(k) withdrawals. Whatever assets they had when they stopped working need to last, and with inflation at a 40-year high, their dollars don’t stretch as far. Even a robust job market doesn’t help when you’re elderly or disabled. While many of us could take on a side gig or look to change jobs in pursuit of a salary bump to deal with rising costs, those options aren’t on the table for many seniors. At Lutheran Residences, that has tenants talking about visiting food banks and cutting cable in order to get by. The rent increase at Lutheran Residences could be a sign of things to come. The building is able to raise rates after paying off its mortgage from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. According to a database of affordable housing complexes, 25 other buildings for low-income seniors in Tampa Bay are slated to lose their federal subsidies in the next 20 years, and three will expire in the next five years. “Their future as affordable housing complexes is unclear,” the Times reported. All this serves as a stark illustration of how hard it is to provide affordable housing for seniors. Pinellas County could build 10 more towers like Lutheran Residences and easily fill them. Most such complexes have waiting lists that can stretch five years, and the units rarely turn over because residents know how few options they have. Affordable housing is already a tough challenge, but affordable housing for seniors might be the hardest part of the crisis to solve. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman Paul Tash. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.