Free birth control Here’s one way Floridians could protect abortion rights | Editorial, May 4 The abortion debate will never end. But free birth control access for all women 16 and older, including the “morning after pill,” would greatly reduce the basis for the debate. Mike Green, St. Petersburg It’s not secular Here’s one way Floridians could protect abortion rights | Editorial, May 4 Scientists and religionists may argue about whether life began in 4004 B.C. or 3.7 billion years ago, but all agree it was a miracle. Now the argument arises whether humankind has the right to tamper with the details of this continuing miracle. Life is to be revered, not subjected to politics and earthly power struggles about the details. Both Justice Harry Blackmun, the late justice who wrote the opinion in Roe v. Wade, and Justice Samuel Alito, whose draft opinion would overturn it, are wrong in their secular and reductionist interpretation of life. Richard P. Condon, Tampa Attack on poor women Here’s one way Floridians could protect abortion rights | Editorial, May 4 The draft Supreme Court opinion is not an attack on all women. No, it is an attack on poor women. A girl from a rich family or a wealthy woman can always get an abortion. So what if her state or even her country says they are illegal? Hop on a plane and fly somewhere where they are legal. George Scheitinger, Dunedin The crisis of foster kids ‘It’s surreal…' | May 4 In Wednesday’s lead article, a typical church voice expresses concern for the unborn, saying that we need to focus on children’s lives and then throws out the tired and unverifiable phrase that there are lots of couples who would love to adopt children. My belief is that what is meant is that there are some wealthy couples who would accept a newborn infant of their own race. What I can verify is there are between 10,000 and 30,000 living children in the Florida foster care system. Why do anti-abortion activists never seem to work to solve that crisis first? Pat Ward, St. Petersburg What could go wrong? DeSantis promises Florida permitless carry gun law before he leaves governor’s office | April 29 No training. No permit. Rabid, paranoid fear of their fellow citizens. And belligerent eagerness to use fatal force in response to any perceived “disrespect.” If Florida passes a law allowing “open carry” of firearms, what could possibly go wrong? Gregg Niemi, Tampa