If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. The Lightning begin the postseason stage of their quest for a third straight Stanley Cup championship — which would be a first in the salary-cap era — when they meet the Maple Leafs in Game 1 of their first-round series tonight at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto. The second-place Maple Leafs finished five points ahead of the third-place Lightning in the Atlantic Division. The teams split their four regular-season games, but Tampa Bay picked up five of a possible eight points due to an overtime loss. Each team enjoyed a blowout win in April. The Maple Leafs won 6-2 on April 4 on the strength of Auston Matthews’ hat trick. The Lightning returned the favor with an 8-1 victory on April 21, the night Steven Stamkos became the franchise’s all-time scoring leader. Who will get the jump on the other in the playoffs? Follow our live updates throughout the game: First period Jack Campbell dives to cover loose puck after Anthony Cirelli chance from in close Andrei Vasilevskiy stops William Nylander shot from right circle Icing call against Maple Leafs T.J. Brodie penalized for hooking Brandon Hagel in front of the Toronto net Steven Stamkos one-timer saved by Campbell Stamkos loses the puck along the wall, and Maple Leafs clear the zone Jake Muzzin clears the puck out of the Toronto zone Pass to Nikita Kucherov doesn’t connect, and Ilya Mikheyev takes control of the puck Timothy Liljegren ices the puck right after the Brodie penalty expires Erik Cernak shot blocked Pregame scouting report Remember when the Lightning seemed to represent nothing more to the rest of the NHL than wasted talent and unfulfilled potential? Me, neither. Their first-round ouster at the hands of the Blue Jackets after setting a league record for regular-season wins (62) in 2018-19 now seems so long ago, it’s easy to forget it ever happened. Tampa Bay came back to beat Columbus in five games in the opening round of the 2020 playoffs on its way to the first of back-to-back Stanley Cup championships. As a result, we can look at the past seven seasons (six playoff berths, five conference final appearances, three Stanley Cup finals appearances and two Cups) as a stretch of sustained excellence, rather than squandered opportunity. Tampa Bay’s 70 playoff wins during that span are more than any other NHL team. Tonight, the Lightning begin the two-month slog toward what they hope will be a third consecutive title, something no other team has accomplished in the salary-cap era. In fact, only the 2015-16 and 2016-17 Penguins have matched the Lightning’s two straight Cups since the cap was first introduced in 2005-06. Oddly, Tampa Bay enters this series in the eyes of many as an underdog to a Toronto team that has not won a Cup since 1967 or so much as a playoff series since 2004. Colorado, Florida, Calgary and in some cases Carolina also are bigger favorites to win the Cup than Tampa Bay. But do not for a moment count out the Lightning. Yes, they lost their entire third line in the offseason. They finished third in the Atlantic Division, five points behind the second-place Maple Leafs and 12 behind the Panthers. And Toronto possesses the NHL’s second-highest scoring team, led by league goal-scoring leader Auston Matthews (60). But the acquisitions of Corey Perry and Pierre-Edouard Bellemare in the offseason and Brandon Hagel and Nick Paul at the trade deadline, as well as the development of Ross Colton, have helped to offset the losses of Yanni Gourde, Blake Coleman and Barclay Goodrow. The Lightning appeared to rediscover their game with victories in seven of their final nine games (including convincing wins over the playoff-qualifying Predators, Panthers and Maple Leafs) after meandering for much of March and early April. They know what it takes to win in the playoffs and have a habit of turning up their game when it matters most. They have top-tier talent, scoring depth, great defense, toughness, veteran leadership, playoff experience and, when everything else breaks down, the best goaltender in the world in reigning Conn Smythe winner Andrei Vasilevskiy. On top of that, they’re at full strength, with center Brayden Point back in the lineup after sitting out two of the final six games of the regular season. It’s hard to imagine a team beating them four times over seven games. But, as Columbus showed us in 2019, anything is possible. And no team is hungrier for a title than Toronto. So, will we see history or heartbreak? We’ll find out together, starting at 7:30 p.m., as the Lightning take their first step in what they hope will be a momentous postseason run. Gameday scene • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.