TAMPA — Todd Bowles didn’t tell Tom Brady he wanted him to participate in offseason workouts, something the quarterback has rarely done in his career. But Bowles is not surprised by Brady throwing to teammates on Wednesday and Thursday during phase 2 of the team’s voluntary offseason program. “Tom’s a worker,” Bowles said. “Tom comes in on his own. He doesn’t need to be here. But you don’t play that long without having inner drive. We have great communication and we have a great relationship. He comes in on his own and works. He doesn’t need the work everyone else needs, but the camaraderie, when he comes in here, is very good.” Bowles, promoted from defensive coordinator to head coach this offseason, still plans to call the defensive plays but has named Kacy Rodgers and Larry Foote co-defensive coordinators. He also intends to have a little input in some of the meetings but has no plans to change the offense. “Everybody thinks I’m changing the offense,” Bowles said. “I didn’t get a head job to be an offensive coach. That’s not my job. I’ve always been a defensive coach, that doesn’t mean I can’t be a head coach. “Tom and I understand that — we have a great relationship going forward. We communicate constantly and I just look forward to working with him from a different angle. But we always talked football off the field when he was here, regardless.” Kyle Trask at No. 2? Earlier this week, quarterbacks coach Clyde Christensen said he didn’t see Kyle Trask competing with Blaine Gabbert for the No. 2 job behind Brady. “He could do it, but the odds are stacked against you,” Christensen said. On Friday, however, Bowles said Trask, the former Florida Gators star, won’t necessarily have another redshirt NFL season in 2022. “There’s competition everywhere, so there will be competition at that spot as well,” Bowles said. “(Gabbert) finished the season at No. 2 — we like Blaine. Trask is going to get his chance to play and compete and if he’s better, he’ll be No. 2. If he’s not, he won’t be. But he will have a chance to compete. He knows that and everybody knows that.” DeCalon Brooks tries out Florida State linebacker DeCalon Brooks, the son of Bucs Hall of Famer Derrick Brooks, said it was surreal participating in rookie minicamp Friday for the team he grew up rooting for. Last week, Brooks was invited to the Commanders’ rookie minicamp as a tryout player. “To be honest, I never thought I’d have a chance of being back here and putting on that uniform,” Brooks said. “So really, it’s a true blessing. It’s special. “It always was a dream of mine. But as I got older, it’s always just been a dream to just play for the Bucs, but really like I had a broad view of it. If it didn’t happen and the Lord saw it another way, then I’m fine with it. It’s just surreal now. I never had my mind really, like, set on I want to be on this team. But if I were to make it on this team, it wouldn’t have the same feel. It will hold more weight.” Brooks was given No. 49, not the No. 55 worn by his dad. “Even if I had the option to wear 55, I probably wouldn’t,” he said. “I want to make my own footsteps and I feel like that number is special and it belongs to my dad.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.