TAMPA — Maybe it was all that pandemic isolation, but the Hyde Park Village outdoor shopping mecca looks to be doing a brisk business in group activities. At the Color Me Mine studio, patrons gather to paint platters and flower pots. At the Sur La Table store, they’re taking classes in how to make dim sum. At a business called The Cake Drip, they get together to customize fancy chocolate bars. Then there’s The Candle Pour, where customers put dozens and dozens of scents to their noses — men tend to go straight for the bacon, reports co-owner Misty Akers — then pick scent combinations and, like the name says, pour their own. (Prices range from $20-$58, and it takes 30 to 45 minutes.) “That was important to us, to have something people experience,” said Akers, whose business partner is her husband, Dennis Akers. “We really wanted to create an environment where if they wanted to do a date night, a corporate team-building, we wanted them to see our space as that environment.” Akers, 44, spoke with the Tampa Bay Times about how it works, some eyebrow-raising scent combinations, and what it was like to open a small interactive business just before the pandemic hit. How did you get your business model? It’s kind of random. I’ve always loved candles, but I wouldn’t call myself artsy or craftsy. It just had a lot of things I thought were good for longevity in business. Candles aren’t going to go away in a couple years. You can get a candle online anywhere, so we tried to turn it into an experience. Your big Amazons and companies like that can’t. We really did try to create an environment that felt like a high-end restaurant or a bar. That was important, because the one type of customer I didn’t want to deter is men. How does it work? So they start by going to the scent wall. They just start smelling the candles along the wall and circle as they go. Then they sit down with one of our team members (Candle Pour has 13 employees) to start to create their blend (of scents). From there, they’re selecting the vessel — four different color options. Then we have them pour it into the candle, stir their candle and that is it. The candles take two hours to be ready to be picked up. A lot of people will come to us and (then) go do brunch. They’re typically going to other tenants in Hyde Park and spending money ... to go shopping, to eat. I think it’s a win-win for everybody. Does anyone ever put together scents that turn out to be perfectly awful? (One customer, a child, combined the scents of coffee, bacon and ginger ale, she said.) Okay, if you were going to order a meal, would you eat those things? But he loved it. The mom was there. I cleared it with her. I will say there have been blends I haven’t been the biggest fan of. If we know something’s going the wrong direction, we try to fix it before they pour their candle. We want them to love it. Like mango’s just not my thing. But there’s a lot of amazing mango candles I’ll help make. What are the most popular — or interesting — scents? Usually guys will go straight for bacon. Women go for champagne. It’s nice and bubbly and a little sweet. They make for good conversation. As we move into spring, olive blossom — it’s just a very pretty floral scent. Black oud is a little more masculine. Seaside villa ... marine ... bergamot — that one’s super popular. We have leather. That’s kind of cool. One of the interesting ones is called vintage library. It’s like you’re walking through the library and you open an old book. We have one called Cuban tobacco. People will say “I want it to smell like Ybor City or Tampa,” so we’ll encourage that to capture the city’s vibe. Who comes in? One of our goals was to not have a demographic. We want all ages, all genders, anyone that likes candles. It’s a great place for a first date because it gives you a talking point. What’s your background? I’m from Tampa — East Bay High School and then graduated from USF. I played on the softball team there. (Then) University of Nevada Las Vegas. I was the national sales director for Ideal Image (which does laser hair removal and other services). I started with a franchise and ended up taking a corporate role. In school my dream job was to be a sports agent. I ended up at Ideal Image — oh, this sounds like a nice job to make money while I’m in school — and then it turned into a pretty good career. I was trying to figure out what I wanted to do next. I did consulting for awhile in medical aesthetics when I left Ideal Image. I just wasn’t in love with the industry. (She met her future husband and business partner, with whom she now has two kids, 3 and 5, when she came back to Tampa.) He does photography and real estate. He’s definitely the marketing guru. I do more the sales and operations side of things. A lot of people would say working with your spouse is tough, but I feel like we’re a really good balance. How was business affected by the pandemic? We opened in late April of 2019. We didn’t make it a year. We ended up shutting down before the government shut down to be responsible. We didn’t want to be the cause of an outbreak, realizing our business was a little unique. Everything we did revolved around people touching and smelling. We focused on wholesale during that time. We closed for five months. It was definitely not ideal. We re-opened in August of 2020 with a very light schedule, I think it was six people in the shop at a time, only one or two employees working. We had everyone keep masks on, which was a challenge. Most people were fine with it, but we definitely did have some people that got angry with us. (They had to shut down again when they were moving to another space in Hyde Park Village and the build-out took months longer than expected, she said.) In 24 months, we were closed eight months. Dennis and I talk about that a lot. We feel like if we can make it through a pandemic and then having to close again, we have something that’s worth fighting for and hanging on to.