TAMPA — Lightning forward Brandon Hagel is in the lineup for Game 3 of their second-round series against the Panthers this afternoon at Amalie Arena. Hagel, who missed Saturday’s practice at TGH Ice Plex in Brandon for body maintenance, was a game-time decision. He has four points, including three assists, in the first nine postseason games. AHL Syracuse’s Cole Koepke and Darren Raddysh joined the Lightning for practice on Saturday and were listed on Sunday’s roster report along with teammates Gage Goncalves, Simon Ryfors, Fredrik Claesson, Alex Barre-Boulet, Remi Elie, Gabriel Fortier, Anthony Richard, Maxime Lagace and Hugo Alnefelt. None, however, were on the ice for pregame warmups. For the Panthers, forward Maxim Manin replaced Anton Lundell, as interim coach Andrew Brunette said he would earlier Sunday. Lundell missed his first game of the postseason. Manin previously played in Games 5 and 6 of the first-round series against Washington, contributing three shots on goal. Forward Mason Marchment missed his third game of the series and fifth of the postseason. Pregame line rushes Forwards: Steven Stamkos-Anthony Cirelli-Nikita Kucherov Alex Killorn-Nick Paul-Ondrej Palat Hagel-Ross Colton-Corey Perry Pat Maroon-Pierre-Edouard Bellemare-(defenseman Jan Rutta) Defensemen: Victor Hedman-Erik Cernak Ryan McDonagh-Zach Bogosian Mikhail Sergachev-Cal Foote Goaltenders: Andrei Vasilevskiy Brian Elliott Round 2 schedule Game 1 — Lightning at Panthers, 4-1 win Game 2 — Lightning at Panthers, 2-1 win (Lightning lead series 2-0) Game 3 — Panthers at Lightning, 1:30 p.m. today Game 4 — Panthers at Lightning, 7 p.m. Monday Game 5 — Lightning at Panthers, Wednesday (if necessary) Game 6 — Panthers at Lightning, Friday (if necessary) Game 7 — Lightning at Panthers, Sunday, May 29 (if necessary) Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.