ARLINGTON, Texas — The Rays had an early indication they were in for a tough night Monday. They got two on with one out in the top of the first inning, and Ji-Man Choi launched a ball 405 feet at 106.1 mph that went over the 6-foot fence to the left of center. Until Rangers centerfielder Eli White leapt with full extension and brought it back. “If there was any sign that the night wasn’t going to go our way,” manager Kevin Cash said, “maybe that should have been it.” Things certainly got worse for the Rays from there as they lost 9-5 to a Texas team that has yet to get to .500 this season. Of the most concern, Wander Franco had to leave the game in the ninth inning after feeling pain in his troublesome right quad turning first after a hit he had planned to stretch into a double, putting his availability to play Tuesday, and perhaps beyond, in question. “It got really tight and usually when it gets tight I feel a little bit pain,” a clearly frustrated Franco said, via team interpreter Manny Navarro. “As soon as I hit first base, I kind of felt it. So that’s why I kind of eased up and went back.” Cash said Franco described the issue as more of “a little tug” than something popping, and that the Rays will make a decision on his status after checking to see how he feels in the morning. The biggest surprise of the night was starter Drew Rasmussen, a master of consistency over 17 starts since joining the Rays rotation in August, having his worst outing. He walked the first three Rangers and allowed a career-high five runs while lasting only three innings. Cash called the outing “uncharacteristic.” Rasmussen used some more colorful words, especially frustrated with walks given he had never allowed three in any of his first 135 big-league innings, much less three in a row. “They did damage on every mistake, so it’s frustrating,” Rasmussen said. “These days kind of suck. I don’t think I’ve ever been scrambled around a yard like that before. So I guess it’s a part of it but, like I said, it sucks.” Also of some annoyance, the offense — without Choi’s homer — was held relatively quiet again, this time by Texas’ Glenn Otto, who doesn’t have the pedigree of the Yankees pitchers the Rays just faced. Plus the play in the field was sloppy. Catcher Francisco Mejia had two wild pitches get past him and made an errant throw in Texas’ two-run first. Reliever Ryan Thompson tipped an infield bouncer that was headed to first baseman Choi into rightfield, allowing a run to score. Two balls got over the head of leftfielder Randy Arozarena. The loss dropped the Rays to 28-20 and five games behind the idle Yankees. The opportunity to take a 3-0 lead certainly would have changed the look of the game. “Obviously it was a good hit by me, but it was also a very good catch by him so also credit to him,” said Choi, via team interpreter Daniel Park. “The homer could have set the tone for the team but it just didn’t happen. So I’m a little upset about that.” Regardless, Rasmussen, who needed 37 pitches to get through the first, said he needed to do better. “The starting pitcher’s job is to set the tone for the entire team for the entire day and I did not do that,” he said. And the Franco injury put a bad wrap on the night. “Wander’s worked really hard to try to manage it,” Cash said. “It’s really tough when you rifle a ball down the line, and you’re thinking about two and try to turn into that extra gear and it just kind of grabbed him a little bit. So we’ll see.” • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.