Blood on our hands 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 Stop blaming Congress for the gun violence in our country. We are still a democracy. Since Congress — the one we voted in — is unwilling to pass any laws to stop these killings, these deaths are on us. So when you go to bed at night, when you pray to your God, when you sit quietly meditating, keep in mind you could have done something to keep our people safe, especially the innocent children. Until we vote in common-sense legislators, the blood is on our hands. Mary Sheppard, Riverview Good guy with a gun died 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 A “good man with a gun” is seen as the solution to mass shootings by much of the political right, including the Texas governor in the aftermath of 19 children who were killed in Texas on Tuesday. During his 30 years as a Buffalo police officer, Aaron Salter Jr. was known for bravery. He was the “good man with a gun” that those supporting their Second Amendment rights see as a solution to gun violence. Well, he was a security guard at the Tops Friendly Markets in Buffalo and fired several shots at the gunman, who was wearing body armor. Mr. Salter is dead now, shot and killed by the gunman. Frances White, Valrico Admit the truth 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 I think it’s time we give up and embrace our love of guns and the death it brings. The brutal death of small children is a small price to pay. This is who we are. We should take lay the bodies of these dead schoolchildren at the bloodied altar of the NRA. Tom Kimler, St. Petersburg Age appropriate? 19 kids, 2 adults slain in school shooting | May 25 Isn’t it ironic, in many states you must be 21 to buy either tobacco or alcohol, but in the same states you can purchase a gun at 18? David Lubin, Tampa What chills me I’m a gun owner and former Republican. Here’s why I oppose ‘permitless carry’ in Florida. | Column, May 25 I would never even think about owning a gun, but I applaud Melissa Ransdell’s column advocating safety and responsibility for gun ownership. The thought of my fellow Floridians carrying concealed weapons with few restrictions chills me. Linda Schatz, Tampa