For whatever reason, you do not yet qualify to receive Social Security benefits, but you’re old enough to begin thinking about retirement. What can you do about that? One of those reasons you haven’t paid enough into the system to qualify may be that you stayed home to raise children. That’s a big job for sure, but an unpaid one. Now that the children are grown, you might want to get back into the workplace to earn Social Security benefits. Or, perhaps you worked for a public entity that had its own retirement program and did not pay into the federal system. You could retire from that job with 25 years experience and if you’re in your early 50s still have enough time to work to qualify for Social Security benefits. What kind of job can you get after age 50 that will build up your credits? The simple answer is any job where the employer pays Social Security taxes, and we will give suggestions on that later in this post. How Social Security credits are accrued Social Security benefits are earned through your work history. To be eligible for benefits, you must work full time for 10 years, earning a maximum of four Social Security credits a year. (You could also work part-time over a number of years and earn enough credits.) In 2022, a worker gets one credit for each $1,510 earned, so that earning $6,040 in one year gets you the four credits for the year. Social Security taxes are taken out of your salary to fund the Social Security program. You must have 40 credits to qualify for Social Security benefits when you reach 62½ years of age. The good news is that what credits you have earned over the years are still in your account even if you didn’t work for a number of years. You can add to your account by acquiring a job that takes Social Security taxes out of your salary. Go to ssa.gov to find out how many credits you already have in the system. You’ll need to set up an account first. Almost any job can build credits Jobs where the employer takes money out of your salary to pay into the Social Security system will build your credits. Keep in mind, though, there are jobs — such as state, county or municipal positions, and some teaching jobs — that have opted out of the Social Security program. That means jobs as public school substitute teachers or part-time work at your local City Hall will not likely earn you any credits. However, most every other job that takes taxes out of your paycheck is paying into Social Security. So, the key to earning Social Security benefits is to get a job. If you are talking to an employer, you can ask them if Social Security taxes are taken out of your paycheck since that is one of the main goals of your working. As stated above, as long as you are making $6,040 in a year, you are going to earn your four credits for Social Security in that year. The more you earn, the more money you will get back in Social Security benefits when you are ready to access them. What if I have been self-employed? Self-employed people (freelancers, gig workers, contractors, etc.) earn Social Security credits at the same rate as others, up to the four credits per year. When you indicate your earnings on your tax return from self-employment, your earnings are taken into account and you earn Social Security benefits. Your taxes to pay for your Social Security benefits are taken out of your taxes at the time you file your tax return. Jobs that will hire employees at age 50+ Many people today begin new careers at the age of 50+. The days of passing over older workers are long-gone because of remote opportunities and perceptions of increased reliability for older workers. Also, there are many job opportunities because of the pandemic-caused Great Resignation. Because the salary to qualify for Social Security credits is so low ($1,510 per quarter), most part-time jobs that take out Social Security taxes will qualify you for Social Security credits. How many credits you need — the full 40 or something less — will determine if you need to work full-time or part-time in the limited time you have to accrue credits. Here are some possibilities from our list of part-time jobs for retirees that will work for anyone. It’s imperative, though, that you work for a company that is taking out Society Security taxes or you are paying them yourself if you are self-employed. Frequently asked questions about Social Security credits: We’ve rounded up the answers to the most commonly asked questions about how to accrue Society Security credits so you can get retirement benefits. What happens if I don’t earn 40 credits for Social Security? If you are or were married for at least 10 years, you are eligible for spousal benefits assuming your spouse is or was eligible for Social Security. Spouses and ex-spouses generally are eligible for up to half of the spouse’s entitlement. Widows and widowers can receive up to 100%. If you have not been married for 10 years or your spouse or ex-spouse is not eligible for Social Security, then you should begin a retirement savings plan (Individual Retirement Account) that will accrue interest and pay you later in life when you choose to receive payments. Can I buy Social Security credits? No. There is no way to make up for lost time with the Social Security program. You get 1 credit for each quarter in which you earn the qualifying amount up to 4 credits per year, and you need 40 to be able to someday receive your Social Security benefits. Can I be denied Social Security retirement benefits? If you have accrued enough credits, you will not be denied benefits except under some circumstances. You will be able to collect Social Security benefits even if you move to a foreign country after you retire. Cuba and North Korea are currently the only two countries where you will be denied benefits if you move there. If you are serving time in prison, your benefits may be suspended during that time, however, the general rule is that felons can receive their benefits after being released. Can I get Social Security if I never worked? If you never had a job for which you paid taxes, then you cannot receive Social Security benefits on your own, however, you still may qualify to receive benefits after a qualifying spouse’s death. If you were self-employed and made enough money for at least 10 years, you are eligible for Social Security as long as you filed a tax return for those years. The Social Security system is an investment plan which accrues interest on your investments and then pays you back when you retire. Kent McDill is a contributor to The Penny Hoarder.