TAMPA — For nearly two weeks, Taylor Wendell has been heckled by Lighting fans as she sported her No. 23 Auston Matthews jersey in and around Tampa Bay. Wendell, 24 of Tampa, has worn the blue jersey to watch parties at Sparkman Wharf and Armature Works, at Amalie Arena for the three home games and even at St. Joseph’s Hospital as she has nursed patients back to health. Her outfit didn’t change Saturday night, as she donned the sweater (along with a Maple Leafs-themed helmet with a blue siren light on top) at Armature Works for the Game 7 watch party. Even ThunderBug took no mercy as he playfully used a leaf blower on her during the first period. “Hopefully we can pull out a win here so I can turn on my light and show everybody that the Maple Leafs mean business,” said Wendell, who came with her wife, Kelsey. Ultimately, Wendell didn’t get the result she hoped for as the Lightning pulled out a 2-1 win in Toronto, but it was the atmosphere she wanted, even if she did have to share it with thousands of Lightning fans. Kevin Belickis, meanwhile, wanted his 4-year-old son Micah to have the best Game 7 experience. Belickis, 32 of Brandon, moved to the area in 2014 and remembered taking in his first Game 7 against Detriot in 2015. It was an experience he’s never forgotten, and he wanted the same for his son. Belickis Is a member of ”Sticks of Fire,” a Lightning fan group in the area. He borrowed a sign from one of the other members to bring Saturday night. Proudly he waved a “Social Distancing Since 1967” sign throughout the night, poking fun at the fact the Maple Leafs haven’t won the Stanley Cup in 55 years. “I wanted to come to the one where (in-game host Greg) Wolf was going to be at and have a good time” Belickis said. “… It’s one thing to jump up and down and enjoy the game at home, but when you get to be around other fans and share that emotion and get so hyped up, it’s awesome.” Lifelong Lightning fan Michael Paleveda watched with an anxiousness as the final seconds counted down in the game. For Paleveda, it was less about advancing to the second round and more about defeating the Maple Leafs, who still haven’t won a playoff series since 2004. “We had a duty to the hockey world to make sure Toronto loses in a Game 7, and we did that,” said Paleveda, 29, of Tampa. “...Your heartbeat’s through the roof, anxiety levels equally as high, but when that clock hits triple zeros, there’s so much relief. You could hear a collective breath relief through the entire Tampa Bay area.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.