Kim Dohrman promises Creative Clay’s Spring for the Arts fundraiser on May 20 will be fun. Dohrman is the CEO of the organization whose mission is “to help people with disabilities achieve full and inclusive lives by providing expressive, educational and vocational experiences in the arts.” “I’m really excited for this event because you are going to see the mission in action at this event,” she said. “Immediately when you walk in, you’re going to be hearing live music by Creative Clay member artists accompanied by Emily Turnage on guitar.” The in-person fundraiser was last held in 2019 due to the pandemic. It supports Creative Clay’s programs, including its core Community Arts Program, which serves 50 to 60 adult artists with neuro-differences every week. More programs include the Artlink apprenticeship program, Creative Care Arts in Wellness outreach program, and its Pinellas County Schools’ partnership Transition program. The evening begins outdoors at Nova 535 in St. Petersburg with the Artlink vocal performances by member artists Mikey J., Cory B. and Ivy J. A short play, Billow, by Sheila Cowley will feature Creative Clay member artists and Sparks Collaborative Ensemble, with choreography by Helen Hansen French and Paula Kramer and narrated by actor Jan Neuberger. Dohrman said the member artists are excited to perform. After the performances, the event moves inside, where the “Iconic Landmarks of Tampa Bay” exhibition of artwork by member artists will be on display. There will also be live portrait drawings by Creative Clay’s member artists. Guests can choose from three original member artist designs and one exclusive design by local artist Chad Mize that Craft-Tee Screen Printing will put on a T-shirt or canvas bag. Monika’s Mirror Booth event photography will also be on hand. Boho Side Show will provide the tunes, and Island Flavors and Tings will dish the eats. There will be a wine pull with more than 50 bottles. A limited silent auction will include two Creative Clay hand-painted electric guitars, and a week’s stay on Manasota Key. There will be opportunity drawings for an Apple computer, Spirit airline tickets and a WUSF $1,500 Longest Table Sponsorship for spring 2023. The dress code is “wear what makes you happy but flowers are super encouraged,” Dohrman said. The member artists have been making paper flowers with which guests can adorn themselves. Creative Clay is also looking for long-term relationships with donors and sponsorships that are made beyond fundraising events and are mutually beneficial. “The focus becomes on the program and not on the event,” Dohrman said. ”... We’re supposed to be focused on ‘How can we make our programs the best they can be and how can we sustain them?’ I want to have partnerships, I want to have relationships and not just a one-off.” That being said, Dohrman is looking forward to the event. “You’re going to see the artists in action. Like I said, it’s going be a good time and you’re going to leave this event understanding what we do.” If you go Spring for the Arts. $125-$10,000, free to sponsors, Creative Clay member artists and one companion, and teaching artists. 6-9 p.m. May 20. Nova 535, 535 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. St. N, St. Petersburg. 727-825-0515. creativeclay.org.