TAMPA — After spending the past week on the road, the Lightning are looking forward to sleeping in their own beds for the next few days. Tampa Bay completed the regular season with trips to Columbus and New York, then flew directly to Toronto for the start of its first-round playoff series against the Maple Leafs. With the series, tied at 1, now in Tampa, the Lightning are happy to have home-ice advantage for Games 3 and 4. “It’s nice to be home and just get back into the swing of things,” said forward Alex Killorn, who assisted on Victor Hedman’s goal in Game 2. With games Friday and Sunday, the Lightning have the chance to take a two-game lead in what’s now a best-of-five series. After losing the opening game 5-0, the Lightning bounced back with a 5-3 win in Game 2. Killorn said the key to riding the ups and downs of the playoffs is to stay calm. “I think you can tend to get high, you can tend to get low, but I think the good part about our team is we’ve been through a lot of these playoffs and we understood even after that 5-0 (loss), I mean, we weren’t reading too much into the media or anything like that, but we knew it was going to be a long and tough series. So, you want to remain even keel throughout a series, and I think that comes through with, obviously, our experience.” Paul playing in important stretches Lightning forward Nick Paul is earning a bigger role with every game, including Wednesday’s win. The recent trade acquisition played 3:43 on the second power-play unit, replacing Pat Maroon in the slot. Midway through the second period, the group took the ice for the final 30 seconds of a man-advantage situation. It worked the puck into the offensive zone and moved it from side to side. Just before the power play expired, defenseman Mikhail Sergachev chipped the puck toward Paul to keep it from leaving the zone. The pass wasn’t perfect, but Paul snagged it with his glove and dropped it to the ice. He sent it along to Ross Colton, who drove the crease and put a shot on goal seconds after the the power play expired. Paul’s role is expanding in other ways, too. With the Lightning protecting a two-goal lead toward the end of the game, he was sent over the boards for the final penalty kill after Brayden Point was called for slashing with 2:35 remaining. Goaltender Jack Campbell was pulled for an extra attacker, creating a 6-on-4 advantage for Toronto. Paul was on the ice for more than two minutes of the final stretch, split into two shifts, as the Lightning held off the Leafs. “He’s long, he’s lanky, he’s got a good stick,” coach Jon Cooper said. “Now you’re getting a stick on a puck, or maybe you’re getting in a lane, but he’s got good anticipation and then he competes hard, like, he doesn’t give up on pucks. He might not be the prettiest player out there, but he’s darn effective, and it’s really helped us.” Contact Mari Faiello at mfaiello@tampabay.com. Follow @faiello_mari. • • • The Tampa Bay Times has commemorated the Lightning’s second consecutive Stanley Cup title with a new hardcover coffee table book, Striking Twice. Order now. Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.