A compromise on abortion You don’t have to be pro-choice to oppose overturning Roe | Column, May 5 I am an educated, retired teacher and educational leader who is politically Independent. Not a fence-sitter, as many on both sides would call me, but a true Independent. I see positives (and negatives) on both sides of the table. To that end, I would like to suggest a compromise. Let me preface that suggestion with a few facts: Republicans, you will never end abortion; you can only end legal abortion. You may not even substantially reduce the number of abortions. Democrats, you need to come closer to the middle. Of course, conservatives object to late-term abortions and partial-birth abortions. Most of us do. They are inhumane. So, here’s the compromise: Women suffering (and suffering is the correct term) from unwanted pregnancies have 16 weeks (four months) to abort safely and legally. With today’s technology, no one can say, after four missed periods, nausea, etc., that they didn’t think to take a pregnancy test. Women must take that much responsibility. The exception, of course, is a risk to the mother’s health. Even rape and incest should be able to be addressed in four months. This way, everyone wins/loses equally. There are no great solutions. Unwanted pregnancy is a true tragedy. But it’s not going to stop happening, and we need to meet in the middle to respect everyone’s needs and rights. Lynn Rourke, Dunedin Communism? How about racism? New law requires school lessons on victims of communism | May 10 So our governor is touting a new law requiring schools to offer lessons on victims of communism. How admirable! But heaven forbid a teacher should even so much as mention victims of racism. Yet racism has had a far more persistent and profoundly damaging effect on our nation than communism, and our schools are forbidden to teach all of those facts. Elenora Sabin, St. Petersburg And the pandemic? New law requires school lessons on victims of communism | May 10 I’m glad Gov. Ron DeSantis wants children to learn about the dangers of communism. Maybe next he can teach our children about the dangers of pandemics and the 70,000 who died in the state because of the incompetence of publicly elected officials. Michael Zaccardi, Palm Harbor