An act of desperation What about the 63 million babies aborted in the U.S.? | Column, May 6 I care about the unborn and the born. Let’s imagine those 63 million babies were born and not aborted. Nearly 14% of Americans live below the poverty line, so the number of children and families thrown into poverty and economic disparities would also increase. How will the political right deal with that? The political right considers many in poverty, especially people of color, a drain on the system. They block legislation that would help uplift them. They block equal rights, affordable health care for all, affordable childcare, paid family leave, living wages, affordable education/training for living wage jobs and much, much more. If they care so much about those 63 million who have been aborted, they would be working to decrease the major reasons women choose abortion (among them, poverty and lost opportunities to improve their station in life) by increasing choices and improving the circumstances and opportunities for women to be able to choose to bring the vast majority of pregnancies to term. Abortion is an act of desperation, not a casual preference for most. A. O’Brien, Pinellas Park Count the votes Democrats hope Roe flips governor’s race | May 5 Hope does not win the elections. You need a majority of the votes. Mortimer Brown, Lutz What’s only fair Sorting out abortion rights in a post-Roe America | PolitiFact, May 6 Many of the states restricting abortions have chosen not to expand Medicaid. We are a country unable to provide universal health care, yet politicians want to inject themselves into women’s health issues. Are these same opponents prepared to take responsibility for all health costs? That’s only fair. Also, whatever happened to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996? HIPAA protects sensitive patient health information from being disclosed without a patient’s consent or knowledge. L.J. Phillips, Brooksville What pro-lifers should do Success couldn’t save the child tax credit expansion | Column, May 6 Pro-life supporters should be vocal about reinstating the child tax credit expansion that helped so many lower-income parents provide for their children. To decrease the need for abortion, they should support free or reduced-cost access to birth control. I am pro-choice, but I do not think abortion should be the first choice as birth control. Each situation is different, and each woman deserves the right to choose what is right for her. Kath Edwards, Tampa